Judul: Dreams
Rilis: May 14, 2020
Penulis: Adefunke Adeyemi
Link: https://medium.com/@adefunke/dreams-1d805ac9db58
Dreams
“What are they?” I have always wondered.
Are they a collection of subconscious thoughts, spewing and ever bubbling in the sub space of the mind? A subliminal manifestation of intuitive insight? Or an activation of our inner desires?
Well, whatever they are, they exist.
I am more inclined to favour the third option because my mind is ever filled with my inner desires. No matter the case, I have only ever had a few dreams — a remarkable few considering that I have lived for over four decades now.
I remember three dreams vividly…
The first dream I recall, must have occurred when I was in my third form in secondary school. The exactitude of the time frame is linked to a bizarre misunderstanding between me and the mother of a friend (whom I will call Mrs. A). Mrs. A somehow got wind of the fact that her son was interested in me and wanted me to be his girlfriend, despite the fact that I had rebuffed his many advances. I, of course, did not know this until I learnt that Mrs. A was around and naively sauntered into the Teacher’s Staff Room to greet her as other students in our form had done. I went over to where she was seating and greeted her in traditional fashion: I knelt down and introduced myself as her son’s friend, which is what I actually was. She, however, must have seen me as a girl who was out to distract her son from his studies. Even though she did not lay a finger on me, to say I was attacked by Mrs. A is no exaggeration. I found myself kneeling on the hard, concrete floor with bits of gravel and stone digging into my knees for what felt like hours, while a barrage of slurs was hurled at me. What made this incident more troubling was that until that day, my impression of Mrs. A was that of a beautiful, classy woman who carried herself with grace. My bafflement at her reaction knew no bounds; neither did my hurt. Suffice it to say that the incident with Mrs. A left me shaken and confused. My then naïve mind was left bruised and battered.
I had the dream on that same night.
I grew up with parents who were as funky as they came — who entered maturity as a couple at the height of the swinging Sixties and Seventies with its unconventional bohemia. My siblings and I grew up learning the artistic and intellectual culture of the time: great music, the best and worst of fashion, the intricacies of social networking and extended family dynamics. I particularly loved the afros, huge sunglasses, mini-dresses and skirts, platform heels, and the unisex, flared bell-bottomed pants associated with that era. Perhaps this is why my dream started with me being pursued by a humanoid beast with jagged teeth, clad in a multi-coloured, full-collared jacket and flared pants with a lightning bolt pattern! Weird. Thankfully, it ended with me outrunning my funky but hellish pursuer.
Did the dream represent Mrs. A as a relic of that bygone era while also stirring the rational part of my innocence to question her meanness? Hmmm…
The second dream occurred towards the end of a very short-lived and ill-judged relationship with a philistine of a man. Now, I must tell you that I have always been a good judge of character, almost always able to suss out the salient traits in humans from the very first interaction. This intuitive gift has helped me over the years to create a healthy distance between me and those whom I perceive could taint, hurt or try to harm me. For this reason, I have always been careful about the type of people I allow into my world. I categorize the people in my personal life into three — those that my environment and upbringing bring into my life, whom I call PLMs (People Like Me); those that I find or who find me through my life’s journey, typically by serendipity, and who become part of the fabric of my life; and the ones I instinctively know I should not be drawn to but whom I am perversely drawn to anyway. My flaw is that I fail to apply the assessments I intuitively make with the latter types of people and with those whom I am closest to.
Back to the man.
I knew he was bad news from the first date. He was the archetypal tall, dark and handsome fellow, self-made and shrewd, but a bit too caught up in himself in a shallow and yet profound way. This was my first impression of him. Despite this slight revulsion, I was mildly intrigued and decided to see where things would go. But my first impression only strengthened with the passage of time, with my instincts shrilly telling me — abort, abort, abort!
This philistine and I became intimate during the few months we dated. The encounter, though technically good, if you know what I mean, left me unfulfilled, low and sad. At a point, I came to the conclusion that it was me who had hurt myself. That night, I had a dream in which an intimate act between us graphically played out, after which, he got off the bed and stood at its foot, looking down at me.
He said to me in our common tongue — “nkan wa ti mo fe lara e” meaning “there is something of you I want.”
Then he walked out to the bathroom, and I heard water running. I woke up with a start! What was this? Why had I done it? Why did I dream of him? And most importantly, what could he have wanted from me? This was the last straw. It was a God-given sign to cut him off. And I did. That dream taught me to remember to trust my instincts.
The third dream occurred after a series of events that led me to believe conclusively that one of the people closest to me was in fact an ‘alabosi’- a double minded, double spirited person, who in one breath could not stand me and insidiously undermined me at every turn, and in another, seemed to be unable to stay away from me. The funny thing about this person, whom I will call Z, is that other close friends and relations constantly pointed out the double trait that I was obtuse to. I always defended Z, but in the end, the bards became more direct until the scales finally fell from my eyes.
Following an unpleasant incident with Z, another story entirely, I had a dream. In the dream, Z and I were in a car on our way out of my residential area. Suddenly, the car veered onto the opposite side of the road, almost colliding with oncoming traffic. I jumped out of the car and started running, fearing something was amiss. I turned back to check if Z was behind me, only to find out that Z had turned into a huge Alsatian dog, with two other hellish hounds materializing directly behind Z. They chased after me and I ran for my dear life! Unfortunately, my legs gave up and I tripped. The dogs lunged at me in unison and the fright woke me up. What did this mean? Did Z actually mean to harm me? I later got to find out.
The questions raised by these dreams would no doubt cost a significant amount of hours and dollars on a therapist’s couch! But writing about them makes two things stand out. One, I like my people straight forward and humane. Is this a pipe dream? Probably. But I need to hold on to this for the sake of my inner peace and sanity. Two, I sure as hell can run! Whether in or out of sleep!
