judul : are breakfast cereal realli good for us ? tanggal rili : 23 april 2025 penuli : jasmin fox-skelli sumber : http : //www.bbc.com/future/article/20250422-are-breakfast-cereals-really-good-for-u fortifi breakfast cereal can be a use sourc of fibr , vitamin and miner – but some are consid ultra-process food . we 're often told that breakfast is the most import meal of the day . get thi decis right and your nutriti morn meal can help keep you energis and focus for whatev challeng come your way . yet the choic of what to eat for breakfast – or what to give your children if you have them – can feel overwhelm at time . if , like 53 % of the us popul you decid to go the breakfast cereal rout everi week , then you can take your pick . there 's porridg oat , granola , muesli , bran flake , corn flake , and puf rice – the option are endless , with each colour box promis to deliv a healthi , nutriti meal . yet , although breakfast cereal have tradit been seen thi way , some scientist warn that these are ultra-process snack – and they are not actual good for us at all . so , what is the truth , and what kind of cereal – if ani – should we be eat ? first off , some fact . cereal are grass from the poacea famili , cultiv for their edibl seed , or grain . cereal crop includ wheat , rice , oat , barley and corn . each cereal grain ha three main edibl compon . there 's the outer layer of bran , which is rich in fibr , b vitamin and trace miner . then there 's the endosperm , which is pack with starch and protein to support the develop plant embryo . final , the germ contain the embryo , and is rich in oil , vitamin and miner . one of the first peopl to come up with the idea of turn grain into breakfast cereal wa john harvey kellogg , an american physician . at the time he wa a superintend of the battl creek sanatarium – a kind of hybrid between a hospit and a health resort . to improv the patient ' diet , kellogg develop , patent and introduc a varieti of new food , includ granola and corn flake . howev , these have now becom so ubiquit that there are dozen of gener version on the market . research confirm that there may be some benefit from eat fortifi breakfast cereal today the product of breakfast cereal is an industri affair . after the grain are harvest , breakfast cereal will undergo variou process step befor be packag and sent to supermarket aisl . some cereal – such as bran flake – are made from the entir , or whole grain , while in other , such as some corn flake , the grain is crush between larg metal roller to remov the outer layer of bran . some cereal then undergo further process where the grain is mill into flour . the result product is then mix with flavour , salt , sweeten and other ingredi such as vitamin and miner . they are then cook and shape into flake , loop or other form . final , the cereal is bake or toast to give it a crisp textur . becaus cereal are fortifi with miner and vitamin , they have long been seen as an effect way of ensur that peopl get the nutrient they need . thi is especi true for individu with restrict diet who may struggl to get the vitamin they requir from food . vegetarian and vegan diet , for exampl , tend to be low in vitamin b12 , while a person with lactos intoler may avoid milk and therefor not get enough calcium and vitamin d. as we get older , we absorb certain nutrient less effici , which can increas the risk of malnourish . pregnant women and children are also at greater risk of nutrient defici . research confirm that there may be some benefit from eat fortifi breakfast cereal . for exampl , studi have shown that mani popul around the world are defici in key nutrient . a studi in the us , meanwhil , found that without fortif , a high percentag of children and adolesc would n't get enough micronutri , risk long term health problem . mani breakfast cereal are also high in fibr , a nutrient that fuel the `` good '' bacteria in our gut – which 90 % of us do n't get enough of . `` gener speak , fortifi cereal can make a use contribut to some of the vitamin and miner that , in the uk , some of us are defici in , '' say sarah berri , professor of nutrit at king 's colleg london . for exampl , berri point to the fact that in the uk , almost 50 % of girl age 11 to 18 have low iron intak . meanwhil , 14 % of adult in the us have inadequ intak of thi nutrient . ( read more from the bbc about the global challeng of iron defici , and the debat over when to take iron supplement . ) `` howev , you have to balanc thi out against the fact that there are mani cereal that are high in sugar , low in fibr , and have a high glycaem index , which mean they are n't go to keep you full for long , '' say berri . there are also way of get these vitamin and miner that might be better for you , such as fruit , nut , and veget , she say . while some breakfast cereal are high in fibr , vitamin and miner , mani are also high in ad sugar , salt and unhealthi fat . accord to the british heart foundat , a chariti that fund cardiovascular research base in the uk , a 30g serv of sugar-frost corn flake , for exampl , contain around 11g of sugar . thi is 12 % of the maximum total recommend intak ( ri ) for sugar in the uk . ( in the us , there is n't a recommend limit for total sugar , but the daili refer intak for ad sugar is 50g per day ( base on a 2,000 calori diet ) . meanwhil , a 45g serv of granola with dri fruit , nut , and seed , meanwhil , ha 9.6g of sugar ( 10.7 % of your total ri ) . eat so much sugar in one go is like to lead to larg blood sugar spike , which over time may leav you at greater risk of develop diabet , heart diseas and other condit . peopl who experi blood sugar spike and dip are also inclin to feel hungrier sooner , lead to unhealthi snack . `` we know from our own research that if you eat a breakfast high in sugar or refin carbohydr , then two to four hour afterward you tend to feel less energet , more hungri , and less alert as well , '' say berri . `` what we 've also shown is that peopl who have that dip after their breakfast tend to consum their next meal 30 minut befor someon who ha a breakfast that doe n't caus them to have a dip , and they tend to consum , on averag , 100 calori more at their next meal . '' there is also concern that some breakfast cereal are an ultra-process food , which mean that they have undergon signific industri process . they frequent contain ad sugar , preserv , artifici colour and other addit . `` as a mum and a scientist , i am cautiou about allow my children to eat cereal that contain a lot of colour , '' say berri . `` whilst in the uk there are stringent regul in place to show the safeti of these addit and colour , i think there 's a lot that we still do n't know about how they may impact our health in the long term , '' add berri . `` we are start to understand that they may neg impact factor such as our gut microbiom , but we just do n't know enough yet . '' howev , not everyon agre . some expert and health chariti argu that lump all ultra process food ( upf ) togeth is too simplist – and not all process food are bad for you . for exampl , a 2024 studi by research at the harvard t h chan school of public health , massachusett , found that while sugari drink and process meat rais the risk of cardiovascular diseas , the opposit wa true for ultra process bread , breakfast cereal , yogurt and dairi dessert . mani oat-bas breakfast cereal are made from fine ground oat flour that do not have the same health benefit as whole , roll oat and not all breakfast cereal are creat equal . berri count granola and muesli as healthi option , as long as they do n't contain too much ad sugar . `` it 's about build a breakfast that ha the fat , the protein , and the carbohydr that 's go to caus that more sustain releas of energi and keep you feel fuller for longer , '' she say . `` granola and muesli have lot of nut , seed and berri in them , so they have got load of fibr , but also protein and fat from the nut . that will keep you full for longer and will therefor balanc your energi level better . '' anoth popular breakfast choic is porridg , or oatmeal as it is known in the us . one larg review studi includ data from more than 470,000 individu , and follow their health outcom over year or decad . the research found that those with the highest oat intak had a 22 % lower likelihood of develop type 2 diabet compar to those with the lowest consumpt . those who consum at least 19g per day also had a 24 % lower risk of death from all caus compar to those who ate the least . the key ingredi thought to be respons for the health benefit of oat is a dietari fibr known as beta glucan . beta glucan ha been shown in mani clinic trial to reduc circul cholesterol level , particularli low-dens lipoprotein ( ldl ) , the 'bad ' cholesterol link to heart diseas . some studi also suggest that beta glucan may reduc a person 's risk of develop type 2 diabet , and help them develop better insulin control . howev , mani oat-bas breakfast cereal are made from fine ground oat flour that do not have the same health benefit as whole , roll oat . compar to the latter , the larg surfac area of breakfast cereal made with oat flour mean they are more quickli digest , caus sugar to rapidli enter the bloodstream . the same is true of pre-cook porridg made from `` instant oat '' . in one clinic trial , volunt were ask to eat roll oat on one day , and instant finely-ground oat on anoth day . the research found that despit the oat contain the same amount of fibr , protein , fat , and carbohydr , the more fine ground oat produc a much larger spike in the particip ' blood sugar level . meanwhil , breakfast cereal made from refin grain , where the nutrient and fibre-rich bran and germ layer have been strip away , may also have fewer benefit . while studi have shown that the consumpt of whole grain is link to a reduc risk of cancer , cardiovascular diseas and type 2 diabet and other chronic diseas , research suggest that some of these health effect do n't seem to appli when grain are consum in their refin form . `` whole grain cereal are healthi becaus they are pack with fibr , '' say riccardo caccialanza , a clinic nutritionist at the univers of pavia in itali . he explain that one import function of thi nutrient is to slow down the digest of food , so you get fewer glucos peak and better glucos control . `` howev , if you take the fibr away , which happen when you refin the grain , then the glucos increas more quickli , '' he say . so , are breakfast cereal good or bad for us ? it depend entir on the cereal . one studi in australia look at over 140,000 peopl age 45 year and older . it found that eat muesli for breakfast lower the risk of heart diseas , stroke , and diabet . anoth larg studi ask over 186,000 particip age 40 to 69 year in the uk about their dietari habit – includ breakfast cereal consumpt – and then follow the particip for an averag of 13 year . it found that peopl who ate at least one bowl muesli , bran-bas cereal , and porridg a day were 15 % , 12 % , and 11 % less like to die dure the follow up period than peopl who did not eat breakfast cereal . on the other hand , individu who ate sweeten cereal for breakfast were more like to die of cancer dure the studi period . the key , then , is to look at the back of the pack care , say expert . `` if you 're select cereal that have about less than five gram of sugar a portion , and more than three gram of fibr per portion , then you 're on track to make a healthier choic for your cereal , '' say berri . but to make it extra healthi , both berri and caccialanza suggest 'hack ' or customis your cereal so that it doe n't just contain carbohydr , but also ha a good mix of healthi fat and protein that will keep you feel full for longer . `` i love a granola , but i add extra nut and kefir yoghurt to it , '' say berri . `` i make a supermarket standard granola healthi by what i overlay on top . and i think that 's someth that peopl should be think about a littl bit – what can they do to add some balanc to [ breakfast cereal ] ? ''