judul : how the deport of a salvadoran man ha becom a hing point in us histori rili : 21 april 2025 penuli : stephen collinson , cnn sumber : http : //edition.cnn.com/2025/04/21/politics/abrego-garcia-deportation-trump-el-salvador-cecot/index.html the saga of kilmar abrego garcia ha becom about more than one undocu migrant ’ s plight in a salvadoran jail and is now one of those rare case that reson in histori and dictat the charact of america itself . the deport maryland resid ’ s fate is turn into a defin test of donald trump ’ s mass expuls program and of democrat ’ abil to frame an oppos argument on the polit tricki issu of immigr , which normal favor the presid and hi parti . the abrego garcia case and relat matter could be the catalyst of a constitut collis between an administr that brook no restraint on it power and the author of the judiciari to check an unfett presid . the ultim outcom of thi critic legal battl could hing on whether the conserv suprem court major is will to risk a showdown with the presid , which it ha seem keen to avoid . the administr admit in court that abrego garcia wa deport becaus of an administr error , ignor a judg ’ s rule that he couldn ’ t be sent back to hi nativ el salvador , where hi life could be in danger . but offici are refus to return abrego garcia to the us , argu they lack power to forc el salvador to do so . offici are also choos to interpret the suprem court ’ s rule that the trump administr must “ facilit ” hi return as a unanim endors of the administr ’ s posit . they argu that becaus abrego garcia is in the custodi of a foreign govern , they have no power to return him . the white hous insist abrego garcia is a terrorist ; a member of the notori ms-13 gang , who will never be brought back to the us . but it ha fail to produc definit evid to prove these claim . it ha instead been malign abrego garcia ’ s charact by highlight a domest disput with hi us-born wife and a claim he wa involv in human traffick . but abrego garcia wa not prosecut in either case , and hi wife ha dismiss the alleg against him . maryland sen. chri van hollen visit el salvador last week . abrego garcia wa brought out of custodi to meet him , wear civilian cloth , in a photo op appar stage by the trump-al govern to embarrass the visit democrat . “ the subject at hand is that he and hi administr are defi a court order to give abrego garcia hi due process right , ” van hollen told cnn ’ s dana bash on “ state of the union ” on sunday . “ they need to put up or shut up in the courts. ” the senat argu the case prove america ha a “ lawless presid who is ignor the order of the suprem court of the unit state to facilit hi return. ” democrat , hurt by former presid joe biden ’ s long refus to admit a crisi at the southern border , have recent struggl to handl immigr polit . and the trump administr ha sought to exploit the abrego garcia matter to forc hi defend to line up against it hardlin stanc , which it believ is polit benefici . but van hollen said the issu go far beyond one individu ’ s plight and get to the fundament question of presidenti power , where trump is push and potenti exceed the legal limit on issu beyond immigr . van hollen argu the presid is use the scourg of gang violenc to justifi bypass legal safeguard . ask by bash whether he would be ok if abrego garcia wa eventu deport , given hi undocu statu , van hollen repli : “ i ’ m ok with whatev the law dictates. ” van hollen ha been heatedli attack by trump and the white hous over hi visit . the presid call him a “ fool , ” and the case ha prompt some democrat , includ california gov . gavin newsom , to suggest the parti would be better off hammer trump on the economi , an issu that may matter more to voter . but van hollen defend hi stanc . he told cnn ’ s bash , “ i don ’ t think it ’ s ever wrong to fight for the constitut right of one person , becaus if we give up on one person ’ s right , we threaten everybodi ’ s rights. ” the trump administr ’ s border czar , tom homan , howev , refus to give ani ground on the case — which ha becom an acid test of the administr ’ s broader immigr approach . after all , if abrego garcia is return , question will be rais about the statu of hundr of other undocu migrant the administr claim are terrorist and gang member who were ship to a notori prison in el salvador . and the trump administr would be tacitli admit the court had jurisdict over it conduct . “ we remov a public safeti threat , a nation secur threat , a violent gang member from the unit state , ” homan said sunday on abc new ’ “ thi week. ” “ ice intellig say he ’ s an ms-13 gang member . confidenti inform say he ’ s an ms-13 gang member . the countri of el salvador say he ’ s an ms-13 gang member . i think he ’ s exactli where he should be. ” the trump administr ’ s mass deport program — a centerpiec of the presid ’ s 2024 elect campaign — is now embroil in multipl legal challeng . it seem inevit that the polici , which have alreadi land befor the suprem court , will return there for final adjud in a moment of histor import . in the earli hour of saturday , for instanc , a major on the high court temporarili block the administr from deport a group of immigr in texa under the 1798 alien enemi act . justic samuel alito , who dissent along with hi fellow conserv clarenc thoma , slam the decis as “ unpreced and legal questionable. ” the court is expect to issu a more formal rule on whether the white hous can go ahead in the come day . the use of the alien enemi act is controversi for sever reason . first , it ’ s one of the most notori law in us histori and wa the basi for the intern of japanes american in world war ii , which is now regard as a dark chapter in us histori . second , the act is design to be use in time of war to detain and deport civilian . despit trump ’ s claim that the us is subject to a migrant invas , the us is not in a state of war . in anoth case relat to the act , us district judg jame boasberg rule wednesday that the administr show “ will disregard ” for hi mid-march order halt deport flight amid a disput over the legal of the remov . he wa the first judg to find “ probabl caus exist ” to hold administr offici in crimin contempt . the key concern about the use of the alien enemi act come down to the lack of opportun for detaine to challeng the action against them in court . thi impress — that basic constitut right and legal procedur that underpin the republ are be infring — is crystal by the abrego garcia case and is whi trump oppon like van hollen regard it as so critic . in a key twist in the drama last week , a feder appeal court knock back the administr ’ s request to overrul a maryland feder judg , paula xini , in the abrego garcia case . xini is grow increasingli frustrat with the administr ’ s delay tactic and defianc after she order it to follow the instruct of the suprem court and “ facilit ” hi return . in a rule thursday , the us court of appeal for the 4th circuit deni the govern ’ s emerg motion to stay xini ’ order pend appeal . write for the appeal court , judg harvi wilkinson said the administr ’ s assert of “ a right to stash away resid of thi countri in foreign prison without the semblanc of due process ” should be “ shock not onli to judg , but to the intuit sens of liberti that american far remov from courthous still hold dear. ” wilkinson , an appointe of former presid ronald reagan , warn of a situat in which two branch of govern were “ grind irrevoc against one anoth in a conflict that promis to diminish both. ” “ if today the execut claim the right to deport without due process and in disregard of court order , what assur will there be tomorrow that it will not deport american citizen and then disclaim respons to bring them home ? ” wilkinson ask . “ and what assur shall there be that the execut will not train it broad discretionari power upon it polit enemi ? ” the rule encapsul thi peril moment in american histori , and the question of whether the judiciari — one of the last effect check on trump ’ s power — will constrain or enabl a presid who see few limit on hi author .