judul : israel must stop apolog for it exist - opinion rili : april 21 , 2025 03:22 penuli : amin ayoub sumber : http : //www.jpost.com/opinion/article-850811 from it incept , israel ’ s exist wa treat as a provoc . a home for the jew ? in the middl east ? say it is n't so . there is a truth that mani are afraid to say out loud : israel is not hate becaus of what it doe ; israel is hate becaus of what it is : a confid , success , unapologet jewish state in a region – and world – that never want it to surviv . thi hatr is not logic . it isn ’ t root in polici ; it defi evid . and yet , it puls through intern institut , colleg campus , western media , and the street of europ ’ s major citi . it ha becom accept – even fashion – to condemn israel for defend itself , to brand it a coloni project , and to campaign not for coexist but for it erasur . still , israel endur . and not onli doe it endur ; it excel . despit relentless pressur , it build , innov , absorb , defend , and creat . that is not just resili ; it is quiet defianc . and that is exactli whi it will prevail . jpost video from it incept , israel ’ s exist wa treat as a provoc . a home for the jew ? in the middl east ? in land jew had live in for centuri , long befor islam exist ? the veri idea wa reject violent by it neighbor . within 24 hour of israel ’ s found in 1948 , five arab nation invad to strangl it in it cradl . they fail . so did everi other attempt to destroy it , from convent war to intifada , rocket barrag , and terror tunnel . but israel ’ s victori on the battlefield wa onli one front . the deeper war – the more insidi one – is the war of percept . and in that war , israel face a much darker forc : the normal of anti-jewish doubl standard disguis as social justic . today , anti-zion ha becom the social accept mask of antisemit . it propon no longer shout “ death to the jew ” but “ from the river to the sea. ” they no longer burn synagogu ; they boycott jewish busi , intimid jewish student , and deni jew the right to self-determin under the languag of liber . thi hatr now hide behind the word “ palestin , ” but it target remain the same : jewish legitimaci , jewish secur , and jewish surviv . it is import to state clearli that critic of israel is not antisemit . but deni israel the right to exist is antisemit . hold it to imposs standard no other nation is judg by is antisemit . and treat it peopl as perman suspect , even when under attack , is antisemit . still , even as hatr grow louder , israel must not flinch . in fact , it answer should not be appeas ; it must be moral clariti . the world accus israel of apartheid , while arab citizen sit in it parliament , attend it univers , serv in it judiciari , and walk freeli in everi citi . the world call it a coloni project as if the return of a peopl to their indigen homeland after two thousand year of exil , persecut , and genocid is coloni . the world accus it of genocid , while it armi warn civilian befor strike terror target embed in home and hospit – someth no other militari on earth doe . israel must stop apolog for exist israel can not spend it energi beg the world to understand . it must stop apolog for it exist . there is no moral justif for it enemi fire rocket from playground , launch terror attack in synagogu , or use their own peopl as human shield . there is no moral high ground in call for the annihil of a nation . so , how doe israel respond ? not just with militari strength , but with narr strength . it must start tell it stori again and tell it better . the world doe not need anoth defens press releas . it need truth with a spine . it need voic that stop chase western approv and start assert moral realiti . israel must stop let it enemi defin the term of the debat . “ occup ” ? the land it is accus of occupi is the same land offer to the palestinian in countless peac deal , all of which were reject , not becaus of border but becaus of israel ’ s exist . “ coloni ” ? there ha never been a palestinian state to colon . jew are not foreign in jerusalem , hebron , or tiberia . they are nativ return home . and to those who chant “ free palestin ” while excus the murder of jewish civilian , israel must respond : freedom is not the right to eras anoth nation . but the strategi can not stop at defens . israel must go on the offens cultur , diplomat , and intellectu . it must invest deepli in media , storytel , and intern educ . not dri fact , but bold narr that make peopl feel the truth . peopl don ’ t ralli around spreadsheet ; they ralli around stori . the stori of israel is power – one of trauma , triumph , rebirth , and hope . the world need to hear it from isra themselv , not filter through foreign correspond or activist ngo with polit agenda . beyond messag , israel must redefin it allianc . for too long , it ha sought love from western elit who will never grant it . it ’ s time to build partnership not just with govern but with peopl – from african innov to eastern european thinker to arab dissid who admir israel ’ s strength and stabil . israel ’ s moral support may not come from the tradit hall of european diplomaci but from a new coalit of nation and individu who admir what it truli stand for : liberti , innov , and surviv . domest , israel must never let the hatr abroad poison the soul within . the answer to hate is not fear ; it is faith . faith in it democraci , resili , and divers . the jewish state must remain what it ha alway strive to be : a beacon of plural and progress in a region suffoc by tyranni . it greatest reveng against it enemi is to keep flourish . and for jew around the world , the messag must be loud and clear : you do not owe anyon an apolog for support israel . zionism is not extrem ; it is justic . it is the belief that jew have the right to live safe in the onli countri that exist to protect them when the world turn away , as it so often ha . israel wa never meant to be like . it wa meant to surviv . and it ha done more than that ; it ha given a scatter peopl a futur , digniti , and a flag to ralli around . that flag , the blue and white , is not a symbol of conquest . it is a promis : never again will jew reli on other for safeti , justic , or ident . so ye , the world may hate israel . but israel doe not exist to be like . it exist to be free . and in it freedom , it ha outlast everi enemi , defi everi expect , and proven , over and over , that hatr is not stronger than histori . in the end , israel doe not need to win heart to be victori . it onli need to stand tall , clear , and unafraid . and it will .