the canadian and dane boycot american product penuli : ann cassidi tanggal : 9 april 2025 link : http : //www.bbc.com/news/articles/c0el8ed21w9o todd brayman is no longer buy hi favourit red wine , which is from california . a veteran of the canadian arm forc , he is one of a grow number of peopl in canada , europ , and other part of the world , who are avoid buy us product due to presid trump 's tariff and treatment of us alli . `` i have in my life serv alongsid american forc . it is just profoundli upset and disappoint to see where we are given the histor tie that our two countri have , '' say mr brayman , who live in nova scotia . `` but i think right now it 's time to stand up and be count , and in my mind , that mean buy local and support canadian busi . '' togeth with hi wife , mr brayman ha replac all the american product he use to buy , includ hi previou wine of choic , with canadian altern . `` luckett phone box red wine , which is from right here in nova scotia , is great , '' he say . determin which product are canadian is n't alway easi howev . `` sometim label can be mislead , '' add mr brayman . to help , he now use an app on hi phone that can scan a product 's barcod and identifi where it 's from . if the product is identifi as american , the app suggest canadian altern . the app , call mapl scan , is one of numer emerg in canada to help peopl shop local . other includ buy canadian , is thi canadian ? and shop canadian . mapl scan 's founder , sasha ivanov , say hi app ha had 100,000 download sinc it launch last month . he believ the momentum around buy canadian is here to stay . `` lot of canadian have told me , ' i 'm not go back ' . it 's import that we support local regardless , '' he say . canadian like mr brayman are boycot american product in respons to a raft of import tariff introduc by trump . these includ tariff of 25 % on all foreign car , steel and aluminium , and 25 % tariff on other canadian and mexican good . meanwhil , other european union export will get tariff of 20 % , while the uk is face 10 % . trump say the tariff will boost us manufactur , rais tax revenu and reduc the us trade deficit . howev , they have spook global market , which have fallen sharpli over the past month . trump ha even express a desir for canada to join the us as it 51st state , someth the canadian govern wa quick to strongli reject . ottawa ha also respond with c $ 60bn ( $ 42bn ; £32bn ) in counter tariff , as well as addit tariff on the us auto sector . and there ha been a substanti drop in the number of canadian travel to the us . group dedic to boycot us good have also emerg in european countri . momentum behind the boycott is particularli strong in denmark , whose territori of greenland trump ha said he want to acquir . denmark 's largest groceri store oper , sall group , recent introduc a symbol , a black star , on price label to denot european brand . bo albertu , a school princip who live in skovlund , a suburb of copenhagen , say join the boycott wa hi way of take action . `` statement that trump made about want to buy greenland , that wa just too much for me , '' he say . `` i ca n't do anyth about the american polit system , but i can vote with my credit card . '' one of mr albertu 's first move wa to cancel hi subscript to us stream servic , includ netflix , disney plu and appl tv . `` my 11-year-old daughter is a bit annoy about it , but that 's the way it is . she understand whi i do it , '' he say . mr albertu is the administr for a danish facebook group dedic to help peopl boycott us good . in the group , which ha 90,000 member , peopl share recommend for local altern to us good , from shoe to lawnmow . mr albertu say : `` it 's a movement that is quit a lot bigger than just our littl countri , so it all that add up . '' mett heerulff christiansen , the owner of a groceri shop in copenhagen call broder ha stop stock american product , such as cheeto crisp and hershey 's chocol , in her store . she is substitut them with danish or european product where possibl . ms christiansen is also swap out product she use at home . she 's find some easier to replac than other . `` coca-cola is easi to substitut with jolli cola , a danish brand , '' she say . `` but technolog , like facebook , that 's total difficult to avoid . '' she believ the boycott movement in denmark is help peopl to channel their anger at trump 's polici and rhetor . `` i think it 's more for the danish peopl to feel good that they are do someth , '' she say . dougla irwin , a professor of econom at dartmouth colleg in the us , who special in the histori of us trade polici , believ the econom impact of the boycott may be limit . `` it is hard to judg how econom signific the consum boycott will be in term of reduc trade with the unit state , '' he say . `` in the past , boycott have not last long and have not achiev much . it start as a hostil reaction to some us action but tend to fade with time , '' he say . for now though , the rise buy canadian sentiment in canada is boost sale for mani local brand . the ceo of canadian grocer loblaw post on linkedin that weekli sale of canadian product were up by doubl digit . bianca parson , from alberta in canada , is behind an initi to promot locally-mad good , call made in alberta , which she say ha had a surg in interest sinc the tariff were introduc . `` we 're now get over 20,000 hit [ to the site ] everi two week . '' ms parson , who is the execut director of the alberta food processor associ , add : `` i 've had produc reach out to us and say : ' i 'm sell out at store that i would never sell out befor , thank you so much ' . '' sever canadian provinc , includ ontario and nova scotia , have remov us-mad alcohol beverag from their liquor store shelv in respons to tariff , a move the boss of jack daniel 's maker brown-forman ha said is `` wors than tariff '' . among the american busi feel the impact is caledonia spirit , a distil base in vermont , near the canadian border . ryan christiansen , caledonia 's presid and head distil , say hi busi had an order on track for shipment to quebec cancel directli after tariff were announc . `` my sens is that everyon 's just be a littl too aggress and , unfortun , i think america start that , '' say mr christiansen . `` i do understand that the action america took need a counter reaction . `` if it were up to me , i 'd be at the tabl tri to resolv thi in a friendli way , and i 'm hope that the leader in america take that approach . '' ethan frisch , the co-found of burlap & barrel , an american spice compani base in new york , which also export to canada , say he 's more concern with the impact of the tariff on hi compani 's import and rise inflat in the us than the consum boycott . he say : `` i think there 's thi assumpt that , if you boycott an american compani , it 's go to have an impact on the economi and mayb chang the situat . i think that assumpt , unfortun , is not accur . `` the [ us ] economi is crash all up by itself . busi like our are struggl without boycott . ''