judul : dream rili : may 14 , 2020 penuli : adefunk adeyemi link : http : //medium.com/ @ adefunke/dreams-1d805ac9db58 dream “ what are they ? ” i have alway wonder . are they a collect of subconsci thought , spew and ever bubbl in the sub space of the mind ? a sublimin manifest of intuit insight ? or an activ of our inner desir ? well , whatev they are , they exist . i am more inclin to favour the third option becaus my mind is ever fill with my inner desir . no matter the case , i have onli ever had a few dream — a remark few consid that i have live for over four decad now . i rememb three dream vividly… the first dream i recal , must have occur when i wa in my third form in secondari school . the exactitud of the time frame is link to a bizarr misunderstand between me and the mother of a friend ( whom i will call mrs. a ) . mrs. a somehow got wind of the fact that her son wa interest in me and want me to be hi girlfriend , despit the fact that i had rebuf hi mani advanc . i , of cours , did not know thi until i learnt that mrs. a wa around and naiv saunter into the teacher ’ s staff room to greet her as other student in our form had done . i went over to where she wa seat and greet her in tradit fashion : i knelt down and introduc myself as her son ’ s friend , which is what i actual wa . she , howev , must have seen me as a girl who wa out to distract her son from hi studi . even though she did not lay a finger on me , to say i wa attack by mrs. a is no exagger . i found myself kneel on the hard , concret floor with bit of gravel and stone dig into my knee for what felt like hour , while a barrag of slur wa hurl at me . what made thi incid more troubl wa that until that day , my impress of mrs. a wa that of a beauti , classi woman who carri herself with grace . my bafflement at her reaction knew no bound ; neither did my hurt . suffic it to say that the incid with mrs. a left me shaken and confus . my then naïv mind wa left bruis and batter . i had the dream on that same night . i grew up with parent who were as funki as they came — who enter matur as a coupl at the height of the swing sixti and seventi with it unconvent bohemia . my sibl and i grew up learn the artist and intellectu cultur of the time : great music , the best and worst of fashion , the intricaci of social network and extend famili dynam . i particularli love the afro , huge sunglass , mini-dress and skirt , platform heel , and the unisex , flare bell-bottom pant associ with that era . perhap thi is whi my dream start with me be pursu by a humanoid beast with jag teeth , clad in a multi-colour , full-collar jacket and flare pant with a lightn bolt pattern ! weird . thank , it end with me outrun my funki but hellish pursuer . did the dream repres mrs. a as a relic of that bygon era while also stir the ration part of my innoc to question her mean ? hmmm… the second dream occur toward the end of a veri short-liv and ill-judg relationship with a philistin of a man . now , i must tell you that i have alway been a good judg of charact , almost alway abl to suss out the salient trait in human from the veri first interact . thi intuit gift ha help me over the year to creat a healthi distanc between me and those whom i perceiv could taint , hurt or tri to harm me . for thi reason , i have alway been care about the type of peopl i allow into my world . i categor the peopl in my person life into three — those that my environ and upbring bring into my life , whom i call plm ( peopl like me ) ; those that i find or who find me through my life ’ s journey , typic by serendip , and who becom part of the fabric of my life ; and the one i instinct know i should not be drawn to but whom i am pervers drawn to anyway . my flaw is that i fail to appli the assess i intuit make with the latter type of peopl and with those whom i am closest to . back to the man . i knew he wa bad news from the first date . he wa the archetyp tall , dark and handsom fellow , self-mad and shrewd , but a bit too caught up in himself in a shallow and yet profound way . thi wa my first impress of him . despit thi slight revuls , i wa mildli intrigu and decid to see where thing would go . but my first impress onli strengthen with the passag of time , with my instinct shrilli tell me — abort , abort , abort ! thi philistin and i becam intim dure the few month we date . the encount , though technic good , if you know what i mean , left me unfulfil , low and sad . at a point , i came to the conclus that it wa me who had hurt myself . that night , i had a dream in which an intim act between us graphic play out , after which , he got off the bed and stood at it foot , look down at me . he said to me in our common tongu — “ nkan wa ti mo fe lara e ” mean “ there is someth of you i want. ” then he walk out to the bathroom , and i heard water run . i woke up with a start ! what wa thi ? whi had i done it ? whi did i dream of him ? and most importantli , what could he have want from me ? thi wa the last straw . it wa a god-given sign to cut him off . and i did . that dream taught me to rememb to trust my instinct . the third dream occur after a seri of event that led me to believ conclus that one of the peopl closest to me wa in fact an ‘ alabosi ’ - a doubl mind , doubl spirit person , who in one breath could not stand me and insidi undermin me at everi turn , and in anoth , seem to be unabl to stay away from me . the funni thing about thi person , whom i will call z , is that other close friend and relat constantli point out the doubl trait that i wa obtus to . i alway defend z , but in the end , the bard becam more direct until the scale final fell from my eye . follow an unpleas incid with z , anoth stori entir , i had a dream . in the dream , z and i were in a car on our way out of my residenti area . suddenli , the car veer onto the opposit side of the road , almost collid with oncom traffic . i jump out of the car and start run , fear someth wa amiss . i turn back to check if z wa behind me , onli to find out that z had turn into a huge alsatian dog , with two other hellish hound materi directli behind z . they chase after me and i ran for my dear life ! unfortun , my leg gave up and i trip . the dog lung at me in unison and the fright woke me up . what did thi mean ? did z actual mean to harm me ? i later got to find out . the question rais by these dream would no doubt cost a signific amount of hour and dollar on a therapist ’ s couch ! but write about them make two thing stand out . one , i like my peopl straight forward and human . is thi a pipe dream ? probabl . but i need to hold on to thi for the sake of my inner peac and saniti . two , i sure as hell can run ! whether in or out of sleep !