opinion : while school shoot spread fear , there is some comfort data on school violenc penuli : ron avi astor tanggal : 3 april 2023 link : http : //amp.cnn.com/cnn/2023/04/03/opinions/violence-in-schools-data-astor # close-menu i often ask my student if they think school violenc ha been increas , decreas or stay stabl over the past two decad . inevit one or more student say someth like : “ of cours it ’ s gone up ! ” by show of hand , most student agre . my student are not alon . there is a widespread belief that violenc in school is on the rise . it emerg in discuss with my univers colleagu , with famili member , with educ charg with protect our kindergartn to 12th grader . policymak share thi view and vow to act , even when so often those promis don ’ t come to fruition . the realiti , howev , is that research show that almost all form of school violenc have been steadili and dramat drop for more than two decad . one dramat and tragic except drive our percept — mass shoot . while the reduct of school violenc should mean one less thing that parent have to worri about , the fear of mass shoot is real and valid , make the absenc of worri seem imposs . our countri deserv to know that mass shoot are just one part of the school safeti stori . on the whole , effort to lessen violenc in school are work . on a day-to-day basi , when look at violenc that is not relat to school shoot , our kid are safer . it ’ s no surpris that american believ that school are less safe today than in the past . we ’ ve all seen and read too often about the hundr of senseless tragic shoot perpetr on innoc schoolchildren and educ . as an expert in thi field , i am often call upon by report and policymak to comment on such incid . for more than 30 year , we have urg policymak to implement import , evidence-bas prevent strategi , onli to have school shoot increas and persist . it ’ s heartbreak . the emot toll of mass shoot is understand horrif . i feel the outrag and the sens of helpless , too . i , like mani other american , fear when my children and grandchildren go to school . as a scientist and expert in school safeti , i tri to take some solac from the clear and strong data trend . progress is be made . overal , on a day-to-day basi for most student , american school are safer from type of violenc – other than shoot – than they ’ ve been for mani decad . inde , behavior such as fight , kick , hit , bring weapon to school , threaten with weapon , verbal victim and social isol have decreas in some case more than 50 % in thi timefram . a recent studi i conduct with my colleagu analyz school victim trend across california from 2001 to 2019 . the studi examin report of victim from approxim 6 million 7th , 9th and 11th grade student . there were massiv reduct in almost all form of victim , includ : - 56 % reduct in physic fight , - 70 % reduct in report of carri a gun on school ground , - 59 % percent reduct in be threaten by a weapon on school ground . thi knowledg make me feel better about send my grandchildren to school . thi true narr is base on scientif data that should also be part of our nation discuss . it should help us direct resourc for further studi and intervent to make even more progress . other type of verbal , social and physic victim also went down . african american and latinx student had much larger declin compar to their white peer . boy had larger declin in victim than girl . veri unexpectedli , the reduct in victim happen in 95 % of the school in california . thi is surpris becaus it goe against much of the nation narr in the media and within polit circl that continu refer to the rise in school violenc . it mean that , contrari to popular belief , the downward victim trend are wide , deep , system and pervas . thi is veri good and import news . and there ’ s even more good news . there are posit chang in how student experi their school environ , includ strong increas over time in feel of belong and feel safe at school . thi mean that student in california school today and student across the us experi million fewer harm act at school when compar with student who attend school 20 year ago . thi amaz trend is someth we should talk about more in the public squar . it ’ s worth mention that our current studi doesn ’ t track the trend of cyberbulli , which accord to feder data ha grown more preval as the internet ha becom more and more intertwin with the fabric of societi . often time , cyberbulli ha tragic consequ , lead to mental health deterior of young peopl and even suicid . tragedi is newsworthi . peopl deserv to know about school shoot and to feel outrag . these feel can build momentum for polici chang . but mass shoot are a differ phenomenon than day-to-day school violenc . the random mass murder of innoc student are act of domest nation terror . the shooter clearli intend to terror the nation by kill mani innoc victim for the primari purpos of be memori . the intens media coverag of the shooter ha unintent creat a strong reward structur for suicid and homicid perpetr if they follow the same terror templat and kill innoc , young victim . as a nation , we have live through more than 20 year of thi copycat terror scenario . in my opinion , thi contagion effect is increas the frequenc of mass shoot . if true , in addit to wide discuss gun regul , we should employ the same media report guidelin for shooter as we do terrorist and suicid . remov the terrorist ’ s reward of be rememb forev by refus to post their name , face , background , thought , video , messag and manifesto . focu onli on the victim and the harm caus . thi could reduc the rise contagion of mass shoot rather dramat if strictli follow .