anxieti at us colleg as foreign student are detain and visa revok penuli : brandon drenon dan robin levinson-k tanggal terbit : 19 april 2025 link : http : //www.bbc.com/news/articles/c20xq5nd8jeo for the last few week , mani foreign student live in the us have watch as a sequenc of event ha repeat itself on their social media feed : plain-cloth agent appear unannounc and haul student off in unmark car to detent centr . those taken into custodi in a string of high-profil student detent captur on video have not face ani crimin charg and instead appear to have been target for involv in pro-palestinian protest on colleg campus . the trump administr ha said repeatedli that visa are a `` privileg '' and can be revok at ani time for a wide varieti of reason . but the crackdown appear to be far wider than initi thought , with more than 1,000 intern student or recent graduat at colleg across the us now have had their visa revok or legal status chang , accord to a tracker from insid higher ed , an onlin news site cover the sector . for mani , the precis reason are unknown , and univers have often onli learn of the chang when check a government-run databas that log the visa statu of intern student . the combin of target detent and report of wide-scal visa revoc have left campus on edg , from the biggest public univers to elit ivi leagu institut , student and faculti told the bbc . `` i could be next , '' said one student visa-hold attend georgetown univers , who ha written articl about israel and the war in gaza . he 's begun carri around a card in hi pocket that list hi constitut right , in case he is ever stop by law enforc . anoth student in texa said he 's afraid to leav hi apart , even to buy groceri . and at some colleg , depart are be hit as research abroad refus to return to the us . most student the bbc spoke to request anonym out of fear that have their name in the media could make them a target . the bbc ha contact the depart of educ for comment . the reason for visa cancel vari . in some case , crimin record appear to be a factor . other instanc have reportedli includ minor legal infract like drive over the speed limit . but `` a lot '' of those target have been involv in pro-palestinian protest , secretari of state marco rubio himself ha said . it is part of a wider white hous push to crack down on protest whom offici say creat an unsaf environ for jewish student on mani campus . they also accus demonstr of have express support for hama , an offici design terrorist group . `` everi time i find one of these lunat , i take away their visa , '' rubio told report in late march . `` we do it everi day . '' civil liberti group have protest against the detent and move to deport student demonstr as a violat of constitut right . and the student themselv reject associ with hama , say that they are be target for polit speech about the war in gaza and us support for israel . at georgetown , sign that read `` protect our student '' have been tape to the door of bathroom stall , ad a sens of gloom to the cherri blossom tree and tulip that typic mark the arriv of spring on campu . a postdoctor fellow from the univers , badar khan suri , wa grab by feder agent outsid hi virginia home in march . the depart of homeland secur accus the conflict resolut research of `` promot antisemit on social media '' and have link to a `` known or suspect terrorist '' . thi wa an appar refer to the palestinian father of hi us-born wife , a former advis to kill hama leader ismail haniyeh . mr suri 's lawyer say he ha onli met hi father-in-law a hand of time and is be target due to hi wife 's ident . hi detent follow that of columbia univers student protest organis mahmoud khalil , a perman resid arrest at home in new york but now await deport from a facil in louisiana . tuft univers graduat student rumeysa ozturk , who co-author a student newspap op- about gaza and wa detain in massachusett , is also be held in louisiana . last monday , mohsen mahdawi , anoth columbia student protest , wa detain in vermont as he attend an interview to obtain us citizenship . like mr khalil , he hold a green card , rather than a student visa . `` base on the detent that we 're see , i think there is a possibl anyon who ha been outspoken about palestin can be detain , '' said the georgetown student , who knew mr suri . the white hous say it is go after those who have been involv in activ that `` run counter '' to us nation interest . in mr khalil 's case , offici have cite a 1952 law that empow the govern to order someon deport if their presenc in the countri could pose unfavour consequ for us foreign polici . in a post on x , the columbia jewish alumni associ celebr mr khalil 's arrest , call him the `` ringlead of chao '' at the univers . poll suggest that immigr is an issu where presid trump enjoy some of hi highest approv rate , with recent reuter and ap-norc survey suggest about half of us adult approv of action in that area , sever point higher than hi overal rate . univers are also be target at an institut level . thi week , the white hous 's task forc on combat antisemit froze over $ 2bn in fund for harvard univers , after the univers refus to agre to a list of demand that it said would amount to `` surrend it independ '' . trump offici have said that if harvard doe n't compli with a request for inform on certain student visahold , it will stop grant visa to intern student who want to studi there . georgetown professor nader hashemi said he believ the govern 's main goal is `` silenc dissent '' by intimid would-b protest . the georgetown student say he ha ask hi parent not to fli from india to the us to see him graduat with a master 's degre in just a few week . he is still unsur if he will even attend the ceremoni . in addit to check hi email daili to see if he is among the hundr that have had their visa revok recent , he ha also prepar for the possibl of sudden arrest . `` i have clear my chat across messag app , and i have learn how to quickli lock my phone in so mode , '' he said . georgetown professor have even begun offer spare room to student who worri about be visit by immigr agent at their resid , said prof hashemi . `` thi is part of the trauma that i think student are face , '' he said . at tuft univers , outsid of boston , massachusett , student are wait to see what happen to ms ozturk , who wa detain outsid her home . video show her confus and shake in fear as she is intercept by agent while head to a ramadan dinner celebr . last year , she had co-author an op- support the boycott , divest and sanction ( bd ) movement against israel . tuft phd student anteri mejr told the bbc that the action have had a `` chill effect '' , and that intern student she know who have left the countri to visit home or attend confer are now afraid to return . `` there are student work remot becaus they 're afraid they ca n't get back in the countri , '' he said . at the univers of texa , rumour about immigr and custom enforc ( ice ) raid on campu have some student terrifi . `` i 'm scare to be out . i 'm scare to come to school . i 'm scare to go groceri shop , '' a master 's student there said . `` i 'm afraid that if i 'm walk , i will be approach by agent in incognito cloth and plain disguis , '' he continu . despit be a green card holder and have not play a role in pro-palestinian protest on campu , he say he is still in `` crippl anxieti '' becaus he ha written thing that are critic of the presid .