judul : nigel farag think net zero is the new brexit . starmer can prove him wrong waktu terbit : wed 23 apr 2025 06.00 bst penuli : rafael behr sumber : http : //www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2025/apr/23/nigel-farage-net-zero-new-brexit-starmer-labour-reform isi berita : which former british prime minist describ the climat emerg as “ a clock tick to the furiou rhythm of hundr of billion of piston and turbin and furnac and engin … quilt the earth in an invis and suffoc blanket of co2 ” ? the florid style give it away . you ’ d guess bori johnson even if you ’ d forgotten that the master of brexit bombast also had a sidelin in net zero evangel . it wasn ’ t the most memor part of hi repertoir and it didn ’ t catch on as a conserv catech . subsequ tori leader abandon johnson ’ s rhetor urgenc over carbon emiss and repudi theresa may ’ s target for cut them . kemi badenoch acknowledg that the scienc of global heat is real but onli as an afterthought , onc she ha finish complain about the cost of a green transit and the improb timet set to achiev it . as in most matter , the tori are flatter nigel farag with pale polici imit . the reform uk leader call net zero “ lunaci ” that destroy job and drive up household bill . reform ’ s polici is to scrap carbon target entir and tax renew . farag need a vehicl for econom and cultur grievanc to replac hi old anti-european bandwagon . it serv him so well but wa immobilis in multipl collis with realiti . he want climate-sceptic to be hi second crusad , ralli demoralis , alien voter against arrog metropolitan elit . “ thi could be the next brexit , where parliament is so hopelessli out of touch with the countri , ” the reform leader said over the weekend . ( he seem to have drop an earlier demand for a referendum on net zero . ) the tori are too beaten , too drain of intellectu autonomi , to do anyth but tag along behind reform . labour is not immun to the same paralys anxieti – the fear that farag , despit hi public school pedigre and citi trader swagger , ha an uncanni way with working-class voter . it doesn ’ t help that the rightw press amplifi reform ’ s campaign and caricatur ed miliband , energi secretari , as a zealou crank . in the ever-seeth stew of labour faction it isn ’ t hard to find mp who use miliband ’ s name as a byword for elector liabil . that resent bubbl to the surfac as media specul that he might be remov at the next cabinet reshuffl , or that he should be . that isn ’ t the signal come out of down street . no one actual involv in write or present govern climat polici is prepar a u-turn in flight from farag . on the contrari , later thi week , keir starmer will reaffirm hi commit to the renew energi transit in a speech at an intern summit in london , co-chair by miliband . it won ’ t be a green rhapsodi in the key of johnson . that isn ’ t the current prime minist ’ s style . starmer ’ s case will be ground in econom pragmat and the nation interest – invest in high-skil , high-wag industri ; end the vulner of suppli that peg household bill to the coerciv whim of vladimir putin ; safe british job in secur british energi . if deliv well , it is a messag with enough potenti public reson to box reform on to the side of econom declin and depend on dictat . the evid from opinion poll ( support by account from focu group that test these issu ) suggest that climat sceptic is not the brexit sequel crave by farag . opposit to the govern ’ s net zero target is a minor posit across everi segment of the elector . even reform and conserv voter are more like to say that green invest will have a posit impact – grow the economi and reduc the cost of live – than the opposit . anxieti about climat chang is not confin to place that vote to remain in the eu . in one survey by research organis more in common , 68 % of farag ’ s constitu in clacton-on-sea , essex , declar themselv “ somewhat ” or “ veri ” worri about the issu . there are place where net zero is univers despis , but they are onlin . in those radic rightw digit arena , climat conscious is the stuff of woke activ , a badg of culture-war villaini worn alongsid gender-neutr pronoun . those digit silo , skew by their fanat american conserv audienc ( and , in the case of elon musk ’ s x , a maniac american proprietor ) seeth with conspiraci theori and denial of climat scienc . parti leader and promin comment of the british right who play to that crowd are pull away from the mainstream posit in their domest polit market . there are still plenti of hazard for the govern navig a complex energi transit . there is a way to sell the long-term goal as a happi align of futur prosper and cleaner live , but there are still upfront cost and tricki trade-off . one cautionari tale is a notori botch german scheme to phase out ga boiler . household were spook by the cost of heat pump and , despit promis subsidi , the backlash help bring down olaf scholz ’ s rule coalit . the main beneficiari wa the far-right altern für deutschland . anoth instruct episod is the juli 2023 uxbridg byelect , which the tori won in defianc of nation poll trend . the result wa credit to a conserv campaign target london mayor sadiq khan ’ s plan to extend congest charg to the capit ’ s outer suburb . but two year on , the lesson from that tale are not so clear-cut . rishi sunak thought he had found a templat for attack labour as a parti of anti-motorist ecowarrior . but when he tri to scale the messag up into a new polici direct he wa pillori for reneg on britain ’ s intern climat commit . uxbridg wa over-interpret in westminst , held up as a distort len that continu to warp convers about environment regul . the seat flip to labour in the gener elect a year later . that is worth rememb if , as seem like , reform doe well in council elect and the runcorn byelect next month . farag will want the result to prove that hi fossil-fuel bandwagon is on the roll . tori climate-scept will eagerli jump aboard even if the true motiv of voter are messi and hard to untangl . they usual are . there will be call for starmer to fend off the radic right with concess to reform ’ s agenda . yield to that temptat is a mistak . the tribut go unappreci by their target audienc . they land instead like a slap in the face of long-suff labour support who had hope the era of coddl farag would end onc the tori were evict from power . it doesn ’ t take too mani demoralis liberal-left voter in margin seat switch to the liber democrat , green or scottish nation parti to put new obstacl on the road to a second starmer term . allegi that have been fray by cut to benefit , oversea aid and other sundri disappoint would be irretriev sever in a retreat from climat commit . lean into the green transit slow that decay in moral . it draw a clarifi line between the starmer project and an axi of tory-reform climat defeat . deftli argu , it is a way to posit the prime minist on the side of optim , mainstream british opinion , resili in an uncertain world and clean air . hi oppon can have putin , donald trump and pollut on their team . it is the smart move in term of elector strategi . it happen also to be the right thing to do .