judul : the suprem court ha care ringfenc protect for women . that ’ s all we want waktu terbit : sunday , 20 april 2025 07.00 bst penuli : sonia sodha sumber : http : //www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2025/apr/20/the-supreme-court-has-carefully-ringfenced-protections-for-women-thats-all-we-w isi berita : middle-ag women are expect to fade into the background , to be apologet for their exist , to quietli accept their lot . they ’ re not suppos to stick up for themselv , to enforc their boundari , to say no . as a woman , these societ expect have been drum into me from day one . but still . the swell of anger and disgust that rose in respons to the suprem court judgment last week that made clear women ’ s right are not for dismantl – right alreadi won , that were suppos to be our all along – ha taken my breath away . i wa in court last wednesday to hear lord hodg confirm that the equal act ’ s legal protect that were alway intend for women are , inde , reserv for women . he reiter that tran peopl continu to have the same robust legal protect against discrimin and harass as ani other protect group , someth i ’ ve alway emphasis in my own write . but men who identifi as femal – whether or not they have a legal certif – are not to be treat as though femal for the purpos of equal law . thi is a huge consequenti clarif becaus for the past 10 year lobbi group such as stonewal have misrepres the law , tell public sector organis , chariti and compani that they must treat tran women as women . now the suprem court ha made it clear : female-onli servic , space and sport can not admit male , howev they identifi . workplac and school must offer single-sex facil ; servic provid do not alway have to , though it may be unlaw sex discrimin for them not to do so . thi mean it is never law to expect a femal nurs to share chang facil with a male colleagu . it ’ s not law to tell a distress femal patient that the obvious male patient next to her in the female-onli ward is , in fact , a woman and she is transphob to question it . it ’ s not law to expect a femal rape victim to take or leav a female-onli support group that includ men . it ’ s not law to tell a woman requir to undergo a strip-search that the male polic offic do it is actual femal . it ’ s not law to expect teenag girl to play women ’ s footbal on a team with male player , or femal boxer to box against men . lesbian can have their own group and associ without be bulli into admit straight male member who – in an act of gross homophobia – self-identifi as “ lesbian ” . whi doe thi matter ? becaus thi unlaw activ ha all been happen in recent year , to the detriment not just of women ’ s safeti , but our privaci and digniti . the judgment could not be clearer on the abov , though that ha not stop a former suprem court justic , jonathan sumption , and a former cabinet minist , harriet harman , from take to the airwav to interpret the law incorrectli . can you imagin angri leftw men rail against ani other group that ’ s manag to secur their right ? me neither in hi remark , hodg caution against read the judgment as a triumph of one group over anoth . that is entir correct : the equal act balanc conflict right , and the suprem court ha simpli restor the balanc to where the law said it wa suppos to be . tran peopl have their protect , but now women ’ s protect , too , have been clearli ringfenc on the same basi – all that leftw feminist ever ask for . but mani pundit have misinterpret thi as mean women should not celebr a landmark legal victori in a case it wa a travesti they ever had to fight . it ’ s a product of the rank misogyni embed everywher , from right to left . can you imagin angri leftw men rail against ani other group that ’ s manag to secur their right ? chastis them for not be graciou enough in victori ? me neither . the reaction to the judgment serv as an import remind that , while the law is the law , our cultur remain dead-set against women who say no to men . it ’ s how women ’ s and lesbian ’ right were so rapidli erod by stonewal and it alli in the first place , and whi women have been bulli , hound and sack simpli for tri to assert their legal protect . the same peopl are ignor the suprem court ’ s emphasi that none of thi take away from tran peopl ’ s exist right , and are scaremong and infantilis tran peopl as victim . lloyd bank wrote to all it employe to say it “ stood by ” and “ cherish ” all it tran employe . sever union have organis an emerg demo in support of tran right , give the impress they are be roll back . it ’ s easi to forget that all that ha happen is that the suprem court ha been clear that a male desir for valid doe not trump women ’ s right to single-sex space and servic . that if you are a male polic offic or nurs demand to strip-search or carri out a smear test on a woman , the answer is no . part of be a grownup is understand that the world can not alway be structur around your own want and need . it ’ s not kind , compassion or healthi to indulg a failur to accept that . the judgment mean tran right activist are at a crossroad . do they doubl down and tri to argu that mp must respond by dismantl women ’ s legal protect ? or do they put a stop to an ideolog crusad that ’ s harm not just women and lesbian , but the mani tran peopl who aren ’ t dogmat about gender ideolog , and instead advoc for gender-neutr third space , open and femal categori in sport , and specialist servic for tran peopl , and against discrimin base on gender non-conform ? if they pick the latter path , they ’ ll find will alli in women like me . and final , to the countless women who lost so much in fight to re-establish what wa suppos to be our all along , there could be no happier way for me to round off my last regular column for the observ than by say : you are hero . pop those champagn cork . celebr as hard as you like . you deserv it .