judul : trump ’ s polit bulli of harvard will do noth to foster divers of thought rili : 20 april 2025 penuli : kenan malik link : http : //www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2025/apr/20/trumps-political-bullying-of- harvard-will-do-nothing-to-foster-diversity-of-thought few peopl want to live in an echo chamber . mani have no problem be friend with those who vote differ to the way they do . and mani would probabl agre with john stuart mill that “ he who know onli hi own side of the case , know littl of that ” – that to truli know one ’ s own argument , one must also know the argument of those who disagre . how to creat a cultur that encourag more fruit engag between those of differ polit view ha becom a key question in contemporari public debat . nowher more so than in univers , where there ha been much debat about “ viewpoint divers ” , the aspir to nurtur differ and conflict perspect within an institut or group as a mean of sharpen argument and teas out truth . univers have in recent decad becom recognis as predominantli liber institut in which the rang of debat can be constrain , both by the fact that most peopl share a similar perspect and by a cultur wari of idea deem offens or hurt . henc the grow call for greater viewpoint divers . the desir to creat a richer cultur of intellectu engag and debat ha also , howev , been turn into a polit cudgel , as in the current standoff between donald trump and harvard univers . the trump administr sent to harvard , as to mani other elit colleg , a seri of demand for the reorganis of it govern and procedur , and for the reform of myriad depart deem too radic . it is part of an attempt to impos polit author over academ life . one key demand is that ani depart “ lack viewpoint divers ” must hire new faculti member to transform it polit complexion . univers author must “ audit ” polit view and onli hire staff whose polit would ensur greater divers of opinion . to engag with conserv perspect is vital . thi , though , is ident polit of a particularli pernici kind packag as a challeng to “ woke ” belief , a form of social engin that conserv normal denounc . whatev happen to their insist that the person best qualifi for a job should get it ? nor is it easi to see what polit balanc might mean . how mani conserv should there be ? how mani marxist ? should there be a quota for jew support the palestinian struggl ? or for hamas-h muslim ? at the same time as demand viewpoint divers , the white hous insist that “ harvard must abolish all criteria , prefer and practic ... throughout it admiss and hire practic , that function as ideolog litmu test ” . how then can the univers collect data on the polit view of potenti hire , even were that accept practic , to refashion everi depart ’ s ideolog complexion as trump demand ? these are not mere problem and contradict within maga world but reflect conundrum within much of the discuss around viewpoint divers . the lack of viewpoint divers can be a real issu . the solut proffer , though , often threaten to make the problem wors . trump ’ s demand is in essenc for univers to introduc affirm action for conserv while abolish divers polici in everi other sphere . similar idea have long percol through liber argument for viewpoint divers . in an address to the american psycholog associ in 2001 , psychologist and legal scholar richard red argu for “ affirmative-action-lik practic ” to increas the number of conserv in academia . mani other , such as the social psychologist jonathan haidt , who help establish the heterodox academi as an academ forum for divers view , and michael roth , presid of wesleyan univers in connecticut and a fierc critic of trump ’ s assault on univers , have follow suit , argu , in roth ’ s word , for “ an affirmative-act program for the full rang of conserv idea and tradit ” . foster divers of opinion , nurtur a richer cultur of debat and encourag freedom of express are all vital aim . but , in advoc affirm action for certain polit viewpoint , institutionalis individu ’ polit ident , and make polit belief legitim criteria for admiss and recruit , the propos solut , cultur anthropologist richard shweder observ , “ embrac the veri problem it diagnos ” . in defin academ by their polit view , the tradit vision of scholarli object , as anoth anthropologist nicola langlitz note , becom subvert . max weber , perhap the most influenti of 20th-centuri sociologist , propos a “ value-neutr approach ” by which one aim to be object irrespect of one ’ s polit . mani now view weber ’ s approach as naiv , given that “ nobodi ha found a way to erad confirm bia in individu ” , as haidt and hi colleagu have argu . all that is possibl , they suggest , is to “ diversifi the field to the point where individu viewpoint bias begin to cancel each other out ” . in other word , ensur that liber bia in research becom countervail by conserv bia . thi may work in mani circumst but , in other , it may make the search for answer more difficult . in mani disciplin within the social scienc or the human , the polit stanc of the scholar can be vital to the argument – for instanc , in the differ between conserv , liber and marxist view of globalis . here , robust debat is essenti but there may be no “ neutral ” posit to be arriv at by wash out the “ bias ” . i began by suggest that few peopl want to live in an echo chamber . nevertheless , societi have also becom more fragment and the polit of ident have help creat a more balkanis world . it is a cultur particularli entrench in univers , where , as shweder observ , “ exposur to argument and evid that challeng one ’ s convict ” can often be experienc “ as trauma or as the creation of a hostil work environ ” . these are not issu confin to univers , nor to one side of the atlant . these are cultur chang we all need to confront . they are also cultur shift that can not be remedi through state mandat or bureaucrat procedur . what we need , rather , is to rethink what is meant by social and polit engag and , in particular , to encourag and celebr , in place of balkanis intellectu silo , what shweder call “ the capac of the human mind to stay on the move between differ point of view ” .