judul : who will be the next pope ? key candid in an unpredict contest tanggal rili : 23 april 2025 penuli : ale , maqbool , rebecca seal & paul kirbi sumber : http : //www.bbc.com/news/articles/ckgxk40ndk1o who will be the next pope ? the decis could have a profound impact on the cathol church and the world 's 1.4 billion baptis roman cathol . it also promis to be a highli unpredict and open process for a host of reason . the colleg of cardin will meet in conclav in the sistin chapel to debat and then vote for their prefer candid until a singl name prevail . with 80 % of the cardin appoint by pope franci himself , they are not onli elect a pope for the first time , but will offer a broad global perspect . for the first time in histori , fewer than half of those given a vote will be european . and although the colleg may be domin by hi appoint , they were not exclus `` progress '' or `` traditionalist '' . for those reason , it is harder than ever to predict who will be elect the next pope . could the cardin elect an african or an asian pope , or might they favour one of the old hand of the vatican administr ? here are some of the name be mention as franci 's potenti successor . pietro parolin nation : italian age : 70 softli spoken italian cardin parolin wa the vatican 's secretari of state under pope franci – make him the pope 's chief advis . the secretari of state also head the roman curia , the church 's central administr . have act effect as deputi pope , he could be consid a frontrunn . he is view by some as more like to prioritis diplomaci and a global outlook than the puriti of cathol dogma . hi critic consid that a problem , while hi support see a strength . but he ha been critic of the legalis of same-sex marriag around the world , call a landmark 2015 vote in favour in the republ of ireland `` a defeat for human '' . the bookmak may back him but cardin parolin will be well awar of an old italian say that stress the uncertainti of the pope-pick process : `` he who enter a conclav as a pope , leav it as a cardin . '' some 213 of the previou 266 pope have been italian and even though there ha not been an italian pope in 40 year , the pivot of the upper echelon of the church away from itali and europ may mean there may not be anoth for now . lui antonio gokim tagl nation : filipino age : 67 could the next pope come from asia ? cardin tagl ha decad of pastor experi – mean he ha been an activ church leader among the peopl as oppos to a diplomat for the vatican or cloister expert on church law . the church is massiv influenti in the philippin , where about 80 % of the popul is cathol . the countri current ha a record five member of the colleg of cardin – which could make for a signific lobbi faction if they all back cardin tagl . he is consid a moder within the cathol definit , and ha been dub the `` asian franci '' becaus of a dedic to social issu and sympathi for migrant that he share with the late pope . he ha oppos abort right , call them `` a form of murder '' – a posit in line with the church 's broader stanc that life begin at concept . he ha also spoken against euthanasia . but in 2015 when he wa archbishop of manila , cardin tagl call for the church to reassess it `` sever '' stanc toward gay peopl , divorce and singl mother , say past harsh had done last harm and left peopl feel `` brand '' , and that each individu deserv compass and respect . the cardin wa consid a candid to be pope as far back as the 2013 conclav in which franci wa elect . ask a decad ago how he view suggest he could be next , he repli : `` i treat it like a joke ! it 's funni . '' fridolin ambongo besungu nation : congoles age : 65 it 's veri possibl the next pope could be from africa , where the cathol church continu to add million of member . cardin ambongo is a lead candid , hail from the democrat republ of congo ( drc ) . he ha been archbishop of kinshasa for seven year , and wa appoint cardin by pope franci . he is a cultur conserv , oppos bless for same-sex marriag , state that `` union of person of the same sex are consid contradictori to cultur norm and intrins evil '' . though christian is the major religion in the drc , christian there have face death and persecut at the hand of jihadist group islam state and associ rebel . against that backdrop , cardin ambongo is view as a fierc advoc for the church . but in a 2020 interview , he spoke in favour of religi plural , say : `` let protest be protest and muslim be muslim . we are go to work with them . but everyon ha to keep their own ident . '' such comment could lead some cardin to wonder if he fulli embrac their sens of mission - in which cathol hope to spread the church 's word throughout the world . peter kodwo appiah turkson nation : ghanaian age : 76 if chosen by hi peer , the influenti cardin turkson would likewis have the distinct of be the first african pope for 1,500 year . like cardin ambongo , he ha claim not to want the job . `` i 'm not sure whether anyon doe aspir to becom a pope , '' he told the bbc in 2013 . ask if africa had a good case to provid the next pope base on the church 's growth on the contin , he said he felt the pope should n't be chosen base on statist , becaus `` those type of consider tend to muddi the water '' . he wa the first ghanaian to be made a cardin , back in 2003 under pope john paul ii . like cardin tagl , cardin turkson wa consid a potenti pope a decad later , when franci wa chosen . in fact , bookmak made him the favourit ahead of vote . a guitarist who onc play in a funk band , cardin turkson is known for hi energet presenc . like mani cardin from africa , he lean conserv . howev , he ha oppos the criminalis of gay relationship in african countri includ hi nativ ghana . in a bbc interview in 2023 , while ghana 's parliament wa discuss a bill impos harsh penalti on lgbtq+ peopl , turkson said he felt homosexu should not be treat as an offenc . in 2012 , he wa accus of make fear-mong predict over the spread of islam in europ at a vatican confer of bishop , for which he later apologis . peter erdo nation : hungarian age : 72 a cardin sinc the age of 51 , peter erdo is highli regard in the church in europ , have twice led the council of european bishop ' confer from 2006 to 2016 . he is well known among african cardin and he ha work on cathol relat with the orthodox church . the archbishop of budapest and primat of hungari grew up in a cathol famili under commun , and he is consid a potenti compromis candid . erdo play a promin role in pope franci 's two visit to hungari in 2021 and 2023 , and he wa part of the conclav that elect franci and hi predecessor pope benedict . hi conserv view on the famili have found favour with some part of the church and he ha navig the `` illiber democraci '' of hungarian prime minist viktor orban . dure europ 's migrant crisi in 2015 , he said the church would not take in migrant as it wa tantamount to human traffick . angelo scola nation : italian age : 83 onli cardin under 80 can vote in the conclav , but angelo scola could still be elect . the former archbishop of milan wa a frontrunn in 2013 when franci wa chosen , but he is thought to have fallen victim to the adag of enter the conclav as pope and leav as cardin . hi name ha resurfac ahead of the conclav , becaus of a book he is publish thi week on old age . the book featur a prefac written by pope franci shortli befor he wa admit to hospit in which he said `` death is not the end of everyth , but the begin of someth '' . franci 's word show genuin affect for scola , but the colleg of cardin might not see hi focu on old age as ideal for a new pope . reinhard marx nation : german age : 71 germani 's top cathol cleric is also veri much a vatican insid too . the archbishop of munich and freis wa chosen as an advis when franci becam pope in 2013 . for 10 year he advis the pope on church reform and still overse financi reform of the vatican . he ha advoc a more accommod approach toward homosexu or transgend peopl in cathol teach . but in 2021 he offer to resign over seriou mistak in tackl child sexual abus in germani 's cathol church . that resign wa reject by franci . two year ago he left the council of cardin , the pope 's most import advisori bodi , in what wa seen in germani as a setback for hi career in the church . marc ouellet nation : canadian age : 80 cardin ouellet ha twice befor been seen as a potenti candid for pope , in 2005 and 2013 . for year he ran the vatican 's dicasteri for bishop , which choos candid for the episcop around the world , so he ha play a signific and form role in vet the futur member of the cathol hierarchi . as anoth octogenarian , he will not be abl to play a part in the conclav itself , which may hinder hi chanc . ouellet is view as a conserv with a modern outlook , who is strongli in favour of maintain the principl of celibaci for priest . he oppos the ordin of women priest , but he ha call for a greater role for women in run the cathol church , say that `` christ is male , the church is feminin '' . robert prevost nation : american age : 69 could the papaci go to an american for the first time ? chicago-born cardin prevost is certainli seen as have mani of the necessari qualiti for the role . two year ago pope franci chose prevost to replac marc ouellet as prefect of the vatican 's dicasteri for bishop , hand him the task of select the next gener of bishop . he work for mani year as a missionari in peru befor be made an archbishop there . prevost is not just consid an american , but as someon who head the pontif commiss for latin america . he is seen a reform , but at 69 might be view as too young for the papaci . hi period as archbishop in peru wa also cloud by alleg of cover up sexual abus claim , which were deni by hi dioces . robert sarah nation : guinean age : 79 well-lik by conserv in the church , cardin sarah is known for hi adher to doctrin and tradit liturgi and wa often consid oppos to pope franci 's reformist lean . the son of a fruit-pick , sarah becam the youngest archbishop age 34 when pope john paul ii appoint him prelat in conakri in guinea . he ha had a long and impress career , retir in 2021 as head of the vatican 's offic that overse the cathol church 's liturg rite . while not consid a favourit for the papaci , he could attract strong support from conserv cardin . michael czerni nation : canadian age : 78 cardin czerni wa appoint cardin by pope franci and is like him a jesuit , a lead order of the cathol church known for it charit and missionari work around the world . although he wa born in the former czechoslovakia , hi famili move to canada when he wa two . he ha work wide in latin america and in africa , where he found the african jesuit aid network and taught in kenya . czerni is popular with progress in the church and wa consid close to pope franci . he is current head of the vatican 's dicasteri for promot human integr develop . although a strong candid , it seem unlik the cardin would choos a second jesuit pope in success .