judul : whi it ’ s time the unit nation is led by a woman with effort toward gender equal stall , vote in a first femal head of the un would provid power represent for half the world ’ s popul — and be good for all of it . rili : 09 april 2025 penuli : melani beth oliv link : http : //www.nature.com/articles/d41586-025-01008-z thirti year ago , the world saw an event that would sadli be hard to envis today : repres from 189 countri endors a plan to improv the live of women across the world . the event wa the unit nation fourth world confer on women , in beij in septemb 1995 . it wa attend by almost 50,000 deleg , mostli women . the beij declar , as it came to be known , recogn that gender equal is not onli a human right , but also transform societi and enrich all live . huge stride have been made sinc 1995 . women ’ s access to educ and reproduct health care ha expand . matern mortal ha fallen , from 339 death per 100,000 live birth in 2000 to 223 in 2020 . the number of countri with law that prohibit gender-bas discrimin in employ ha nearli trebl sinc 1995 , to 162 as of 2024 . the proport of women in parliament ha more than doubl in the same period , although as of 2024 , 113 countri have still never had a woman serv as head of state or govern , accord to a report publish by un women ( see go.nature.com/3g7onoj ) , which wa form in 2010 in new york citi as a sourc of fund and a driver of un activ on gender equal . the beij commit also includ a pledg to increas the number of women in research . today , 70 % of countri report on what they are do to increas opportun for girl and women in scienc , technolog , engin and mathemat , as well as digit skill and train , an increas from 59 % in 2019 . the intern day of women and girl in scienc , establish by un agenc in 2015 and held annual on 11 februari , ha help toward that goal . in educ more broadli , girl are now more like than boy to complet secondari school in most region ( sub-saharan africa be a notabl except ) . sinc the beij confer , organ and busi of all shape and size , along with un organ , have elect or appoint women to lead them . one studi found that , as of 2020 , 43 women have been at the helm of un agencies1 . there is , howev , a glare except : sinc it found in 1945 , the un itself ha onli ever been led by a man . a campaign ha begun to elect a woman as un secretary-gener , to succeed antónio guterr when hi second term end at the end of 2026 . there are sever women equip to do the job and it ’ s time to hand the rein to one of them — which is whi natur fulli endors thi movement . the case for a woman to lead the un is ground in principl of equal and justic , and support by scholarship . peac agreement sign by women are more like to last2 ; conflict are settl more effici and equit when women sit on both side of the negoti table3 ; and human-right activist , includ advoc for women ’ s right , have been veri effective4 . have a woman as un secretary-gener , as well as provid a role model , would make it more like that the uniqu circumst of women — such as be disproportion affect by climat change5 and experienc long-last effect from conflict — are factor into decision-mak at the highest level . that decision-mak need to be remind that women are disproportion affect is one indic that progress itself remain a work in progress . inde , for the first time in decad , some thing seem to be go backward ; the unit state and elsewher , reproduct right are be roll back . restor the right of women and girl in afghanistan to receiv an educ and be abl to work seem to not be a prioriti for the intern commun . digit technolog bring with it new form of violenc against women and girl , and “ anti-right actor are activ undermin long-stand consensu on key women ’ s right issu ” , the un women report say . sinc 2022 , case of conflict-rel sexual violenc have risen by 50 % , with women and girl experienc 95 % of these crime . almost one-quart of countri repres to un women also report that a backlash on gender equal is hamper implement of the beij declar . at the annual meet of the un commiss on the statu of women in new york citi last month , govern reaffirm and updat the commit made in beij — includ that nation look at societ and econom problem through the len of gender . howev , the unit state and russia were among those express object — a mark differ to their broadli posit contribut in 1995 . us repres jonathan shrier critic the declar for lack specif languag on gender , argu that “ women are biolog femal and men are biolog male ” . he also use the opportun to denounc the un sustain develop goal . there are report that un women is among the group under pressur from the us administr to avoid terminolog associ with divers , equiti and inclus . the organ ha said previous that it is commit to the “ right and equal of all peopl , includ women in all their divers , and all peopl with divers sexual orient , gender ident , gender express and sex characterist ” . appoint a secretary-gener is complex . the un secur council ( domin by it perman member , the unit state , russia , china , franc and the unit kingdom ) must agre on a candid , who is then put to a vote in the un gener assembl . the situat will be further complic by the fact that the secur council today is intens divid . that said , sure no countri today can argu that no woman is qualifi for the role . we are not say appoint a person sole becaus of their gender . rather , we make thi call to encourag un member state to overcom the bias that often mean that the right person is overlook . appoint a woman would send a strong messag that , 30 year on from the beij declar , the world ’ s commit to gender equal is not go away — and that it benefit all peopl , everywher .