judul : with ‘ ai slop ’ distort our realiti , the world is sleepwalk into disast rili : 21 april 2025 penuli : nesrin malik sumber : http : //www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2025/apr/21/ai-slop-artificial-intelligence-social-media a pervers inform ecosystem is be mine by big tech for profit , fool the unwari and send algorithm crazi there are two parallel imag channel that domin our daili visual consumpt . in one , there are real pictur and footag of the world as it is : polit , sport , news and entertain . in the other is ai slop , low-qual content with minim human input . some of it is banal and pointless – cartoonish imag of celebr , fantasi landscap , anthropomorphis anim . and some is a sort of pornifi display of women just simpli … be , like a virtual girlfriend you can not truli interact with . the rang and scale of the content is stagger , and infiltr everyth from social media timelin to messag circul on whatsapp . the result is not just a blur of realiti , but a distort of it . a new genr of ai slop is rightw polit fantasi . there are entir youtub video of made-up scenario in which trump offici prevail against liber forc . the white hous account on x jump on a trend of creat imag in studio ghibli style and post an imag of a dominican woman in tear as she is arrest by immigr and custom enforc ( ice ) . ai polit memefar ha , in fact , gone global . chines ai video mock overweight us worker on assembl line after the tariff announc rais a question for , and respons from , the white hous spokesperson last week . the video , she said , were made by those who “ do not see the potenti of the american worker ” . and to prove how pervas ai slop is , i had to triple-check that even that respons wa not itself quickli cobbled-togeth ai content fabric anoth dunk on trump ’ s enemi . the impuls behind thi politicis of ai is not new ; it is simpli an extens of tradit propaganda . what is new is how democratis and ubiquit it ha becom , and how it involv no real peopl or the physic constraint of real life , therefor provid an infinit number of fiction scenario . the fact that ai content is also spread through huge and ubiquit chat channel such as whatsapp mean that there are no repli or comment to challeng it verac . whatev you receiv is imbu with the author and reliabl of the person who ha sent it . i am in a constant struggl with an otherwis online-savvi elderli rel who receiv and believ a delug of ai content on whatsapp about sudan ’ s war . the imag and video look real to her and are sent by peopl she trust . even absorb that technolog is capabl of produc content with such verisimilitud is difficult . combin thi with the fact that the content chime with her polit desir and you have a degre of sticki , even when some doubt is cast on the content . what is emerg , amid all the landfil of giant ball of cat , is the use of ai to creat , idealis and sanitis polit scenario by render them in triumphant or nostalg visual languag . prof roland meyer , a scholar of media and visual cultur , note one particular “ recent wave of ai-gener imag of white , blond famili present by neofascist onlin account as model of a desir futur ” . he attribut thi not just to the polit moment , but to the fact that “ gener ai is structur conserv , even nostalg ” . gener ai is train on pre-exist data , which research ha shown is inher bias against ethnic divers , progress gender role and sexual orient , therefor concentr those norm in the output . the same can be seen in “ trad wife ” content , which summon not onli beauti supplic homemak , but an entir throwback world in which men can immers themselv . x timelin are awash with a sort of cloth nonsexu pornographi , as ai imag of women describ as come , fertil and submiss glimmer on the screen . white supremaci , autocraci , and fetishis of natur hierarchi in race and gender are packag as nostalgia for an imagin past . ai is alreadi be describ as the new aesthet of fascism . but it isn ’ t alway as coher as that . most of the time , ai slop is just content-farm chao . exagger or sensationalis onlin materi boost engag , give creator the chanc to make money base on share , comment and so on . journalist max read found that facebook ai slop – the sloppiest of them all – is , “ as far as facebook is concern ” , not “ junk ” , but “ precis what the compani want : highli engag content ” . to social media giant , content is content ; the cheaper it is , the less human labour it involv , the better . the outcom is an internet of robot , tickl human user into whatev feel and passion keep them engag . but whatev the intent of it creator , thi torrent of ai content lead to the desensitis and overwhelm of visual palat . the overal effect of be expos to ai imag all the time , from the nonsens to the sooth to the ideolog , is that everyth begin to land in a differ way . in the real world , us politician pose outsid prison cage of deporte . student at us univers are ambush in the street and spirit away . peopl in gaza burn aliv . these pictur and video join an infinit stream of other that violat physic and moral law . the result is profound disorient . you can ’ t believ your eye , but also what can you believ if not your eye ? everyth start to feel both too real and entir unreal . combin that with the necessari trivialis and provoc breviti of the attent economi and you have a grand circu of excess . even when content is deepli seriou , it is present as entertain or , as an intermiss , in a sort of visual elev music . horrifi by donald trump and jd vanc ’ s attack on zelenskyy ? well , here is an ai render of vanc as a giant babi . feel stress and overwhelm ? here is some eye balm – a cabin with a roar fire and snow fall outsid . facebook ha for some reason decid i need to see a constant stream of compact , cutesi studio apart with a variat of “ thi is all i need ” caption . and the rapid mutat of the algorithm then feed user more and more of what it ha harvest and deem interest to them . the result is that all media consumpt , even for the most discern user , becom imposs to curat . you are immers deeper and deeper into subject world rather than object realiti . the result is a veri weird disjunctur . the sens of urgenc and action that our crisis-torn world should inspir is instead blunt by how inform is present . here , there is a new way of sleepwalk into disast . not through lack of knowledg , but through the paralysi caus by everi event be filter through thi pervers ecosystem – just anoth part of the maximalist visual and show .