judul : 7 drug that chang the world rili : septemb 29 , 2023 ( updat ) penuli : john p. rafferti link : http : //www.britannica.com/list/7-drugs-that-changed-the-world peopl have swallow elixir , inhal vapor , and appli ointment in the name of heal for millennia . but onli a small number of substanc can be said to have fundament revolution medicin . seven of those drug are list here , along with some fact that may surpris you . paulescu ’ s pancrein ? the discoveri of insulin wa no doubt a major breakthrough in medicine—prior to it discoveri , diabet suffer often die at a young age . but while canadian scientist sir frederick g. bant and charl h. best , along with their colleagu , often are credit with the hormon ’ s discoveri and isol , romanian physiologist nicola c. paulescu appear to have beaten them to it . paulescu isol a substanc call “ pancrein , ” presum insulin , in 1916 , but he wa soon after recruit to serv in world war i . he final publish hi find in 1921 , though they were overshadow by the releas of the canadian ’ report earli the follow year . bayer : take two and call us in the morn in 1899 farbenfabriken vormal friedrich bayer & co. ( later bayer ag ) introduc aspirin , a pain-reliev that would come to rank high among the world ’ s most commonli use drug . the compani credit the synthesi of pure acetylsalicyl acid , aspirin ’ s activ ingredi , to bayer chemist felix hoffmann . howev , decad after it introduct , former bayer chemist arthur eichengrün cri foul , claim to have invent the process of the compound ’ s synthesi himself , with hoffmann mere carri out the procedur . bayer hold by it claim that hoffmann wa the inventor . everybodi stay calm the introduct of the tranquil chlorpromazin ( also known as thorazin ) in the 1950 repres a turn point in psychiatri , one that gave rise to the “ psychopharmacolog revolution. ” inde , not onli wa chlorpromazin successful—bi 1964 some 50 million peopl had taken the drug—but it develop also laid the groundwork for the later gener of agent use in the treatment of anxieti and depress . furthermor , the character of it effect on neurotransmitt and their receptor provid insight into how impuls are pass from one neuron to the next in the brain , lead to major advanc in scientist ’ understand of mental ill and cognit . from chemic warfar to cancer * nitrogen mustard were develop in the 1920 and ’ 30 as agent of chemic warfar . by the 1940 , howev , it had becom clear that at least one of these compound , hn-2 , also known as mechlorethamin , wa better suit for use in the fight against cancer , specif against human lymphoma , than it wa in the fight between axi and alli power . in 1949 mechlorethamin becam the first drug approv by the u.s. food and drug administr for the treatment of cancer . so retro—that is , antiretrovir the u.s. food and drug administr ’ s approv in 1987 of zidovudin , more wide known as azt , wa a breakthrough in the treatment of hiv/aid . while not abl to cure the diseas , the drug wa found to prolong the live of aid patient . it also wa the first of the so-cal nucleosid revers transcriptas inhibitor , a group of antiretrovir drug that becam a cornerston of hiv/aid therapi . owe to these drugs—and perhap most significantli to increas access to these drug in countri worldwide—th annual number of death from aid declin in the earli 21st centuri . popul control in the earli 1920 , austrian scientist ludwig haberlandt publish a paper suggest that hormon could be use as an effect mean of contracept in anim . while it is unclear , he may have soon after test a hormon prepar in clinic trial , despit heavi critic from colleagu who consid contracept to be taboo . haberlandt ’ s work , howev , came to an abrupt end with hi suicid in 1932 . two decad pass befor further clinic trial of hormon contracept were conduct in human , and then larg at the urg of social activist margaret sanger . the first birth control pill wa approv in 1960 , in the unit state . a life-sav contamin in 1928 scottish bacteriologist alexand fleme wa in the process of steril bacteri cultur plate that had becom contamin with mold when he notic clear zone circl mold coloni . the mold toxin respons for kill the bacteria turn out to be penicillin , which australian pathologist howard walter florey and british biochemist ernst bori chain later success isol and purifi to produc what becam arguabl the world ’ s most effect live-sav antibiot . incident , fleme seem to thrive on contamination—hi other major discoveri , of the antisept enzym lysozym in 1921 , wa made after he had accident contamin a cultur plate with hi own cold germ .