judul : a ‘ black snape ’ in the new harri potter seem design to caus controversi – but it could work tanggal terbit : sunday 20 april 2025 penuli : jason okunday link : http : //www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2025/apr/20/black-snape-harry-potter-paapa-essiedu-actor isi : ignor the fuss : paapa essiedu is a brilliant actor who can bring hi own depth and style to enrich the icon charact after month of specul , hbo ha announc part of the cast of the latest round of harri potter ip-min : the new tv adapt of the origin book will featur john lithgow as dumbledor , nick frost as hagrid – and paapa essiedu as snape . as the mail and telegraph ’ s headlin were quick to inform their reader , ye , thi mean a “ black actor ” in that icon role . there is a real concern that essiedu is drink from a poison chalic – that he will be associ with an author who is at the forefront of a gender-crit movement that ha succeed in redefin the right of tran peopl to their detriment ; that he will have to weather the racist storm of potterhead enrag at the divers from “ book accuraci ” ( snape is describ as have “ sallow skin ” ) ; and deal with opportunist look to illustr their next rant about how the world ha succumb to “ woke orthodoxi ” . all of thi in a show that is slate to last a decad . i ’ m sceptic about colour-blind cast , especi when it ’ s present as a magic bullet for divers concern in the art – but i can ’ t help but enjoy the audac of black snape . if ani perform from the origin film were go to be rethought consider – consid that cast so far is rel align in appear , bar a more handsom quirrel – snape is the most obviou choic . alan rickman ’ s depict wa so singular that ani actor who hew close to it would like be written off as do a pastich . he is also arguabl the most complex and tragic figur in the seri , invit the most interpret . so whi not play around with it a bit ? mani detractor are insist that they would ’ ve been ok with , say , a black dumbledor or a black professor mcgonagal , but that the detail of snape ’ s arc within the seri are made invari more touchi and load if the charact is black . harri and hi friend ’ suspicion of their potion professor is down to sens a menac , scheme intent behind hi cold disposit . cue the imagin new snape go : is it caus i ’ m black ? harri ’ s dad , jame , and hi friend bulli snape at school in the 1970 , make him levit and then hang him upsid down . if unchang in the new seri ( thi somewhat depend on the cast of jame ’ s friend ) thi could now look like an imag of racist bulli . perhap that would make jame potter irredeem , particularli consid the real experi of black peopl in board school – or it could simpli deepen the seri ’ depict of vulner and torment . alan rickman as severu snape with rupert grint as ron weasley and daniel radcliff as harri potter in harri potter and the goblet of fire , 2005 view imag in fullscreen alan rickman as severu snape with rupert grint as ron weasley and daniel radcliff as harri potter in harri potter and the goblet of fire , 2005 . photograph : warner bros/allstar it is worth point out that snape be portray by a black actor isn ’ t automat the same as there be a “ black snape ” . hbo could simpli gloss over the racial implic behind such a decis – after all , the bigotri and oppress system of “ muggl ” do not neatli map on to the magic world . but , if execut well , thi cast repres an opportun . i am incred intrigu by thi idea of a black man who is social ostracis in hi youth and then join the death eater ( akin to an extremist , white supremacist parti in the real world ) ; who realis the error in hi way , and give hi life in servic of redeem thi mistak . the stori alon doesn ’ t necessarili need the dynam of race , but who in our current time may be better place to repres such intern conflict , yearn for accept and a defect from such ideolog than a black actor ? in clint dyer and roy william ’ play death of england , essiedu master play a black working-class brexit-vot bailiff in what wa a compel psycholog profil of the alien experienc in desper tri to reconcil aspir for white in a world that hate you . similarli , snape ’ s backstori of join the death eater is complic by him be a “ half blood ” who join a blood puriti cult advoc for a standard he doe not meet . rather than a hasti imposit on the text , dig a littl and a black snape start to look like a much richer prospect – and ye , not too complex for a children ’ s seri where all the theme of prejudic , ident and accept are alreadi present . whether the creator will approach the issu with such consider , sensit and context howev remain to be seen . quiet as it ’ s been kept , paapa essiedu is one of the finest british actor that i ’ ve ever had the privileg to see perform – he is emin command on the stage , emot precis and abl to balanc humour and solemn . in hi emmy-nomin turn in michaela coel ’ s i may destroy you , he expertli captur the sens of be haunt by trauma . so whi shouldn ’ t he cash in on one of the seri ’ most icon role rather than settl for a minor side charact so as not to upset those who would onli find someth els in the seri to complain about anyway ? behind the furor , though , is a much larger issu – about the kind of restrict that are place on the career of black actor and other creativ . essiedu is a black actor , where hi colleagu are just actor . i am a black writer , where my peer are just writer . perhap essiedu be “ too black ” for the role will mean some peopl give the tv seri a miss . that ’ s fine , they can just wait for the next ip round .