judul : alexand fleme rili : april 20 , 2020 penuli : scienc histori institut link : http : //www.sciencehistory.org/education/scientific-biographies/alexander-fleming/ in 1928 alexand fleme ( 1881–1955 ) discov penicillin , though he did not realiz the full signific of hi discoveri for at least anoth decad . he eventu receiv the nobel prize in physiolog or medicin in 1945 . as far back as the 19th centuri , antagon between certain bacteria and mold had been observ , and a name wa given to thi phenomenon—antibiosis—but littl wa made of these observ . a folk tradit use mold in medicin wa similarli neglect . in 1928 alexand fleme discov penicillin , made from the penicillium notatum mold , but he did not receiv the nobel prize in physiolog or medicin for hi discoveri until 1945 . fleme himself did not realiz how import hi discoveri wa ; for a decad after , he focus instead on penicillin ’ s potenti use as a topic antisept for wound and surfac infect and as a mean of isol certain bacteria in laboratori cultur . it wa left to hi fellow nobelist , howard florey and ernst chain , to demonstr in 1940 that penicillin could be use as a therapeut agent to fight a larg number of bacteri diseas . the road to st. mari ’ s born in lochfield , ayrshir , scotland , fleme wa the seventh of eight surviv children in a farm famili . hi father die when he wa seven year old , leav hi mother to manag the farm with her eldest stepson . fleme , have acquir a good basic educ in local school , follow a stepbroth , alreadi a practic physician , to london when he wa 13 . he spent hi teenag year attend class at regent street polytechn , work as a ship clerk , and serv briefli in the armi dure the boer war ( 1899–1902 ) , although he did not see combat . then in 1901 he won a scholarship to st. mari ’ s hospit medic school in paddington , london , which remain hi profession home for the rest of hi life . approach to fight infecti diseas fleme accept a post as a medic bacteriologist at st. mari ’ s after complet hi studi , and in 1906 he join the staff of the inocul depart under the direct of sir almroth wright . wright strongli believ in strengthen the bodi ’ s own immun system through vaccin therapi , not by chemotherapy—th introduct of extern chemic agent ( see paul ehrlich ) . nonetheless , he turn over to fleme sampl of a new drug , salvarsan , synthes by paul ehrlich and colleagu for treat syphili . fleme ’ s experi administ the drug to patient wa posit , and thereaft he maintain a small but lucr practic administ salvarsan to wealthi patient suffer from syphili . dure world war i , fleme work at a special wound-research laboratori in boulogn , franc , head by wright . there he began research that produc result more in keep with wright ’ s think . he wa abl to demonstr that then commonli use chemic antisept like carbol acid do not steril jag wound ; rather , pu ha it own antibacteri power . use cell on a slide , he wa abl to show that chemic antisept in dilut harmless to bacteria actual damag white blood corpuscl ( leukocyt ) —the bodi ’ s first line of defens . after world war i , fleme continu to work on leukocyt and antisepsi . in 1921 he discov a substanc in nasal mucu that caus bacteria to disintegr . fleme and a colleagu subsequ detect thi substanc , which he name lysozym , in human blood serum , tear , saliva , milk , and a wide varieti of other fluid . in it natur state lysozym seem to be more effect against harmless airborn bacteria than against disease-caus bacteria . and attempt to concentr it , therebi strengthen it antisept properti , prove unsuccess . penicillin discovered—bi accid fleme ’ s legendari discoveri of penicillin occur in 1928 , while he wa investig staphylococcu , a common type of bacteria that caus boil and can also caus disastr infect in patient with weaken immun system . befor fleme left for a two-week vacat , a petri dish contain a staphylococcu cultur wa left on a lab bench and never place in the incub as intend . somehow , in prepar the cultur , a penicillium mold spore had been accident introduc into the medium—perhap come in through a window , or more like float up a stairwel from the lab below where variou mold were be cultur . the temperatur condit that prevail dure fleme ’ s absenc permit both the bacteria and the mold spore to grow ; had the incub been use , onli the bacteria could have grown . fleme ’ s laboratori notebook are sketchi , and hi subsequ account of the discoveri are contradictori . the evid of the first cultur , which he photograph , indic that he observ lysi , the weaken and destruct of bacteria—a in hi lysozym studi . but sometim he describ the key observ as an instanc of inhibit or prevent of bacteri growth in area affect by the mold “ juic , ” evidenc by a clear zone surround the mold . although these two effect occur under quit differ condit , fleme probabl forgot which observ came first , for in the month subsequ to the origin observ he conduct mani experi while vari condit systemat . he discov that the antibacteri substanc wa not produc by all mold , onli by certain strain of penicillium , name , penicillium notatum . although he could not isol it , he name the activ substanc “ penicillin. ” he studi method of produc the impur product and determin it stabil at differ temperatur and over variou length of time . he investig it effect on mani microb , curious omit the familiar spirochet that caus syphili ( which salvarsan control but did not elimin ) . he test it toxic on a laboratori mous and a rabbit . forev after , it ha been a puzzl whi he did not inject these or other laboratori anim with staphylococcu or other disease-caus bacteria befor inject them with the fluid contain penicillin . perhap the explan lay in hi belief that cure come from within the bodi itself , rather than from an extern agent . so he wa not look for a cur agent but rather focus on hi new find as a topic antisept . in later year he claim that the difficulti he had experienc in isol and stabil penicillin , let alon the problem of produc suffici quantiti for clinic trial , had prevent him from realiz the full fruit of hi research . in fact , in the 1930 , littl notic wa taken by the scientif commun of hi paper publish in the british journal of experiment patholog ( june 1929 ) . those few scientist who sent for sampl and tri to gain more understand of the properti of penicillin did not or could not capit on fleme ’ s discoveri .