judul : an anonym 4chan post could help solv a 25-year-old math mysteri tanggal terbit : octob 25 , 2018 penuli : mari beth grigg link : http : //www.theverge.com/2018/10/24/18019464/4chan-anon-anime-haruhi-math-mysteri isi : a 4chan poster may have solv part of a veri tricki math problem that mathematician have been work on for at least 25 year . the user wa just tri to figur out the most effici way to watch episod of a nonlinear anim seri , but the result ha gener consider interest from mathematician around the world who have no way to identifi the anonym user . yesterday , robin houston , a comput scientist and mathematician tweet about the bizarr intersect of 4chan and mathemat , inadvert set off a wave of public interest in the stori . within hour of hi tweet , hi phone wa vibrat constantli . “ it start to go mad , ” he say . “ my phone start go crazy. ” the 4chan part of thi saga began on septemb 17th , 2011 , when a poster pose a question : if you want to watch 14 episod of the anim the melancholi of haruhi suzumiya in everi possibl order , what ’ s the shortest string of episod you ’ d need to watch ? if you want to watch 14 episod of ‘ haruhi ’ in everi possibl order , what ’ s the shortest string of episod you ’ d need to watch ? there are 14 episod in the first season of haruhi , a 2006 anim base on a seri of japanes light novel . the episod , which featur time travel and are otherwis chronolog challeng for the viewer , origin air in a nonlinear order . when the seri went to dvd , the episod were rearrang , and it ’ s becom someth of an obsess for fan to rewatch the seri over and over again , go through as mani chronolog as possibl . an anonym poster figur out one possibl way to solv to the 4chan problem , satisfi the more mathemat inclin haruhi fan . but in the process , they also help puzzl out an issu that mathematician have been work on sinc 1993 . the anonym author proof ( which wa recent repost on a fandom wiki ) is current the most eleg solut to part of a mathemat problem involv someth call superpermut . it ’ s an enigma that goe well beyond anim . in mathemat , a permut is the order of a set of number . in anim term , one permut of haruhi would be watch all 14 episod in the order that they air . but what if you ’ re a haruhi superfan and watch the season onc isn ’ t enough for you ? in that case , you might be interest in a superpermut , or all of the possibl permut of a set strung togeth . think of it as the ultim haruhi marathon . think of it as the ultim ‘ haruhi ’ marathon the branch of math that deal with permut and superpermut is call combinator . it doesn ’ t requir year of studi to be good at it , either . “ it ’ s more access to amateur and casual mathematician , ” houston say . the poster ’ s anonym doesn ’ t invalid the solut for the mathematician . “ what ’ s beauti about mathemat is that it ’ s a proof that start with your hypothesi and lead to your conclus , ” jay panton , a mathematician at marquett univers say . “ you have to convinc a skeptic reader that you ’ re correct . that doesn ’ t reli on your ident be known. ” panton wa that skeptic reader for the 4chan proof . thi week , he translat it from the more inform 4chan post into a more formal layout that mathematician like himself could more easili understand . he say the proof hold up . with the haruhi problem , peopl were look for the shortest possibl superpermut for the 14-episod set . but no one ha found a formula that would actual solv that problem . the 1993 paper suggest one part of that solut . but in 2014 , houston figur out that the math use in the 1993 problem didn ’ t work for set contain more than six number . the result got mathematician realli excit about the problem again after it had languish in the literatur for a quarter centuri . eventu , one of them found the 4chan proof , and all those number and symbol start to fall into place . the 4chan proof outlin how to find the smallest possibl number of episod for the solut . but that doesn ’ t fulli solv the problem . an even bigger breakthrough came earlier thi month when sci-fi author and mathematician greg egan wrote up a proof that outlin how to find the largest possibl number for ani given superpermut problem . panton crunch the number of the haruhi problem for the verg and found that you ’ d need to watch at least 93,884,313,611 episod to watch the season in ani possibl order . at most , you ’ d need to watch 93,924,230,411 episod to accomplish the task . there ’ s still a way to go to narrow down the exact answer , but they ’ re get there . now , mathematician have a way to figur out the rang of answer , and a group of them — includ houston and panton — are activ work to figur out a formula that combin egan ’ s work and the anonym proof into a cohes formula . “ it might be possibl to crack the thing complet open , ” houston say . beyond answer obscur anim question , there are no known applic for the formula beyond answer obscur anim question , there are no known applic for the formula , which isn ’ t unusu in the field . it often take decad , panton say , for formula that are discov in pure mathemat to make their way into real-world applic . but the 4chan episod doe show that math can be access to anyon . “ thi proof show that you don ’ t need to be a profession mathematician to understand mathemat and advanc the frontier of knowledg , ” panton say . “ that ’ s the beauti thing about math , is that anyon can understand the question . ”