judul : can the presid revok a univers ’ s tax-exempt statu ? tanggal rili : 16 april 2025 penuli : zachari b. wolf sumber : http : //edition.cnn.com/2025/04/16/politics/universities-tax-exemption-trump-harvard-irs-what-matters/index.html ( cnn ) - cnn ’ s report that the ir is make plan to revok harvard univers ’ s tax-exempt statu the day after presid donald trump suggest it repres an unpreced use of presidenti power over the tax code . while there are exampl of colleg lose or fail to achiev tax-exempt statu , thi ha never come on the heel of a presid ’ s express wish . the ir is suppos to be immun from polit . presid aren ’ t suppos to direct ir investig us law specif prohibit presid from direct the ir to investig anyon in a section entitl : “ prohibit on execut branch influenc over taxpay audit and other investigations. ” while the ir fall under the treasuri depart , it ’ s import that it be as protect from polit as possibl . that ’ s whi the ir ha onli two polit appoint offici , accord to mark mazur , who wa assist secretari of treasuri for tax polici at the outset of the biden administr the us ha higher voluntari tax payment rate than other countri , mazur told me , “ becaus peopl feel that their interact with the tax system are fair and base on law. ” if the ir is suddenli use for polit purpos , that trust could be destroy . dure the obama administr , for instanc , the ir becam embroil in a bona fide scandal when a treasuri depart investig found the ir delay confer tax-exempt statu on conserv group . if the ir did find that it tax-exempt statu should be revok , harvard would need to be warn and given an opportun to contest the find . it would also have the opportun to challeng the ir in court . there is alreadi a lot of chao at the ir under the new trump administr . multipl act commission have resign , appar the result a standoff over whether tax data could be use by immigr offici . it would not be unpreced for a univers to lose it tax-exempt statu back in 1983 , the suprem court agre that bob jone univers should not be tax-exempt becaus , at the time , it ban interraci relationship among it student . the univers didn ’ t drop it interraci marriag polici until 2000 — in an announc on cnn ’ s larri king live , coincident — although it did not regain it tax-exempt statu until 2017 . the us ha now come full circl to the point that one of the main gripe trump ha with harvard is it divers program . harvard vs. trump if there ’ s one american univers that should be abl to stand up to the trump administr , it ’ s harvard . the nation ’ s most famou institut of higher learn ha resourc . it endow exce $ 50 billion . it also ha alli . a shock number of republican and democrat lawmak are alumni — nearli 10 % of repres and nearli 20 % of senat , accord to one estim . but for all of it wealth and cachet , the institut reli on feder fund and it tax-exempt statu like everi other major research univers . after harvard reject the trump administr ’ s demand for access to and review of harvard ’ s employ , hire and admiss data , as well as the discontinu of all divers program , trump said on social media that the univers ’ s tax-exempt statu should be rescind . the long-term question will be what would happen to harvard without feder dollar and exempt from billion of dollar it might owe in tax if it lost that statu — not onli to the feder govern , but perhap also to the state of massachusett . whi are univers tax-exempt ? harvard , along with most major public and privat us colleg , is exempt from pay tax becaus of it statu as a nonprofit organ . like church and chariti , univers fall under section 501 ( c ) 3 of us tax code . the idea , which is written into the law , is that their benefit to societi — in thi case , educ and research — outweigh the need for the tax base they would provid . not all institut of higher learn go thi rout , as trump is intim awar . hi now-defunct trump univers wa a for-profit organ that wa su for fraud by former presid . trump settl the lawsuit . tax-exempt univers , on the other hand , must refrain from endors candid or influenc legisl , among other thing . they must publicli provid annual report on their activ and financ . ‘ in harmoni with the public interest ’ the ir and the us have challeng the tax-exempt statu of univers and other organ , as occur with south carolina ’ s fundamentalist bob jone univers . the ir challeng bob jone ’ statu in 1970 , but the suprem court didn ’ t rule until 1983 that in order to be tax-exempt an organ must , “ demonstr serv and be in harmoni with the public interest , and the institut ’ s purpos must not be so at odd with the common commun conscienc as to undermin ani public benefit that might otherwis be conferred. ” for mani year the ir withheld tax-exempt statu grant to religi organ from the church of scientolog , but revers cours in 1997 after a long and unconvent campaign by scientologist . trump ha alreadi tax univers like harvard interestingli , the tax law trump sign dure hi first term levi a new tax on the wealthiest univers , includ harvard . the 1.4 % excis tax on univers with more than $ 500,000 per student in their endow appli to 58 univers in 2022 , accord to the tax polici center , and rais $ 244 million . that tax still exist today . lawmak are current revisit that law , and it could provid anoth opportun to take a hard look at the tax paid — or not — by univers .