firm say meta not help them to recov hack account penuli : jane wakefield tanggal : 17 april 2025 link : http : //www.bbc.com/news/articles/c74zdm4kewlo when wed dress design catherin dean saw her compani 's instagram account get hack , she say it wa `` devast '' . `` it felt like the rug had been pull from under us . instagram is our primari social platform , and we 've invest the most amount of time and busi resourc into it . `` to keep the account current we post content everi day . suddenli all thi work… it wa just pull . '' ms dean 's uk-bas busi , which is name after her , sell wed dress onlin , with her biggest market be the us . on instagram it now ha 59,000 follow , but a few year ago the firm lost control of the account after a member of it social media team receiv a messag suggest that the busi had been select to get blue-badg verif from instagram , which is own by facebook 's meta . thi wa the stamp of authent that ms dean had long sought . `` we were obvious veri excit about that , '' she say . so her employe open a link to what turn out to be a fake instagram verif form that request log-in credenti . she fill it in , divulg the usernam and password , and shortli afterward the account wa taken over by hacker . what ad to ms dean 's anguish wa that she say she had to fight with meta to get her account back , which took four month . initi she fill out the admin disput form and sent it off , but heard noth . multipl email follow but no action wa taken . `` it 's so incred frustrat when you 're deal with your account be hack and there is no-on to talk to , '' she say . `` it 's almost traumatis becaus there is no-on who understand and can help escal it . '' eventu an email came from meta , tell her that the case wa close , even though she wa still unabl to access her page . in the end the matter wa final resolv for ms dean becaus someon in the firm had a contact at facebook , and the team email that person daili for the four month . `` final , i think they just need to get us off their back and they reinstat the account , '' say ms dean . accord to jona borchgrevink , boss of us-bas cyber secur firm hacked.com , ms dean is far from a uniqu case among peopl with busi account on instagram and facebook . `` i would say that it is a massiv problem , '' say mr borchgrevink . `` there are probabl thousand everi day that are lose their busi page . '' hi compani help firm recov their instagram and facebook account , and he get `` 10 to 15 client per week '' . `` but those are just the one that know about us and are abl to pay the price , becaus these case can take up to six month to sort . '' the bbc ask meta to provid some number that would reveal the extent of the problem , and how it wa tackl it , but it declin . howev , it said in a statement , that `` we take the safeti and secur of our commun serious and encourag everyon to creat a strong password , enabl two factor authent and to be suspici of email or messag ask for person detail . `` we also have a featur call secur check-up to help peopl keep their instagram and facebook account secur . '' hacker want to take over busi social media account for a number of reason . these includ use the page to sell fake product or place scam advert , harvest person inform , spread malwar , trick peopl into send money , or blackmail the compani in question to unblock the account . the final thing in that list happen last year to david davila , who is part of the market team at quantum window & door , a small , family-run busi base in washington state in the us . he got lock out of the firm 's social facebook account when he respond to what turn out to be a fake messag purport to be from meta . becaus hi phone number wa link to the account , that also fell into the hand of the scammer and , soon after the lock-out , he got a whatsapp messag demand $ 1,200 ( £900 ) to unlock the account . unabl to find a helplin , he search on googl , but the number he rang put him through to more scammer . that link ha sinc been remov by googl . thank , mr davila wa abl to get the facebook account unlock a few day later . mr borchgrevink believ that meta is overwhelm by the scale of the problem . `` it ha implement differ secur measur over the year and yet we still receiv the same amount of client , so i do n't think there 's been a lot of chang there , '' he say . in fact , with scammer now utilis ai to make their messag seem even more believ , mr borchgrevink think the situat could get a lot wors . he tell the bbc that scammer are behind mani of these lock-out and one of their prefer method of fool peopl is to masquerad as custom support agent . `` they pretend to be meta support and send the busi an email say that they have infring some kind of copyright or broken term and condit in some way , and that they need to verifi themselv . `` the messag have the facebook logo and are veri believ . but when you start to verifi your busi page , they ask for the password and redirect you to a fake meta site to steal log-in . '' he said that the fraudster often target a person facebook page first , becaus all busi account need to be link to one . `` your person account will also have admin right to your busi account . the scammer go into your busi account and transfer the admin right to their own or to fake profil . `` then they go back to your person account and disabl it by post inappropri content like terror-rel or pornography-rel . that disabl your account and make it realli hard to recov either that or your busi account . '' the bbc ha also learn of busi lose access to their facebook and instagram account despit them not be hack . one small busi which is part of franchis , told the bbc that they lost access to their account when anoth franchise gain a blue-tick verif . as a result of that their account wa flag as a clone . meanwhil , other , such as digit market chetha senadeera , say that meta ha wrongli close busi account . last autumn he realis that a facebook page he manag for a mobil bank had gone miss . `` it had just disappear , '' he say . `` there wa no notif to me or ani of the team member . it wa just gone . it wa like it had been kidnap , almost . '' the page wa a crucial gateway to custom across europ for lithuania bank mytu . mr senadeera say that the custom support agent he spoke to at meta , facebook 's owner , were baffl . he say they told him that they could see the page , but that it had been restrict , and that they could n't unblock it . six month later , and the page remain lock . meta tell the bbc that the page had been remov for violat it scam polici , via a link on the page that wa flag by it system as potenti harm . mr senadeera disput that the firm ha ever post ani harm or mislead content . he say that meta need to do more , and move more quickli , to help firm get their facebook and instagram page back , whether they have been a victim of fraud or not .