judul : opinion : the tide is turn against autocraci rili : decemb 1 , 2022 penuli : john avlon link : http : //edition.cnn.com/2022/12/01/opinions/democracy-autocracy-russia-china-iran-avlon/index.html ( cnn ) — we ’ ve gotten use to headlin predict the demis of democraci . while the threat we face are real , a glanc around the globe show that it ’ s autocrat who are in retreat right now . connect the dot between the demonstr in china , the month of protest in iran and russian presid vladimir putin ’ s failur after hi invas of ukrain and you ’ ll see that autocrat are on the backfoot as we come to the end of 2022 . the pendulum seem to be swing back toward democraci . it ’ s a welcom remind that the peopl ultim have the power and that , for all our imperfect , democraci have more durabl strength becaus of our liberti , divers and creativ . it ’ s time to restor our confid in thi global conflict between democraci and autocraci . a year ago , mani peopl were predict the opposit trajectori for our time , with the atlant captur the bleak assess on it cover with the headlin , “ the bad guy are winning. ” but life can come at you pretti fast , as chines presid xi jinp ha learn . a few week ago , he wa ride high , have secur a third term as head of the chines communist parti , unpreced sinc the time of chairman mao zedong . but china ’ s zero-covid polici ha backfir badli , and now peopl are rise up in multipl citi at the same time – someth almost unheard of in that surveil state . xi ’ s regim is , in fact , more unsteadi than it seem . thi is compound by a real estat bubbl which promis to weaken the economi and a demograph time bomb which undercut it overwrought reput for inevit domin in the 21st centuri . strong men are alway weaker than they seem . nine month ago , putin ’ s quick triumph over ukrain seem all but assur . bad call . the will of the peopl of ukrain to defend their democraci is a remind that autocraci can not ultim overcom free peopl will to defend their liberti . putin ’ s stand at home ha been weaken through mass conscript and protest that continu as mani of the best and brightest continu to leav that countri . thi war ha cost russia time , talent and treasur – while the nato allianc ha been reviv , with previous neutral sweden and finland pois to join . then there ’ s the islam republ of iran . the theocrat have been in power for more than 40 year , but the death of a young woman while in custodi of iran ’ s moral polic ha spark three month of continu protest across the countri . these sustain protest might prove to be the most import stori of 2022 . within democraci , nationalist leader with autocrat impuls – from outgo presid jair bolsonaro in brazil to presidenti hope marin le pen in franc – have seen defeat in recent month . but even befor these stori collid there were sign of the pendulum swing back . in june , the pew research center found that global attitud toward the unit state and nato were at or near all-tim high among major alli nation – a sea-chang from 2020 , the last year of the trump presid . not onli that , russia and putin were seen as decid pariah – with a stun 90 % of respond in the annual pew global attitud survey say they have no confid in putin to do the right thing in world affair . if that seem obviou , rememb that in 2020 former presid donald trump wa view as less trust to do the right thing than russia ’ s putin and china ’ s xi . i want to be clear : thi shift toward democraci and away from autocraci is no reason to break out the “ mission accomplish ” banner . there are plenti of place in the world where autocrat feel embolden . north korea , nicaragua and saudi arabia come to mind . there are addit headwind which can not be dismiss , from the rise of populist demagogu to disinform amplifi via social media that make reason much more difficult . but to the extent that dictat have tri to band togeth and offer an altern to democraci , the broad pushback by the peopl they seek to control is a hope sign for the futur of human freedom . it ’ s a remind that the inevit overreach by societi who tri to control human be is ultim not sustain , even though they use the lever of fear and greed to coerc peopl into submiss – and may succeed for a time . thi battl is far from over . but i ’ m will to bet that when we look back on 2022 , we ’ ll see it as a time when the pendulum began to swing back from autocraci toward democraci . we can not know if their effort will ultim dislodg ani of these dictat , but they remind us in real time that heroism is not simpli someth for histori book .