opinion : we are not ok post-covid penuli : sophia a. nelson tanggal : 5 septemb 2022 link : http : //edition.cnn.com/2022/09/05/opinions/self-care-after-covid-pandemic-nelson/index.html it ’ s hard to believ we are near the end of the summer of 2022 . for mani , the great pandem of 2020 is long ago in the rearview mirror of our live , but it is not . from long covid-19 to “ quiet quit ” and now even “ quiet fire , ” we all feel the intens and stress , and perhap , even the promis of thi moment we are live through . as we return to the offic and send kid back to classroom , we need to ask ourselv two seriou question : are ani of us emot and mental readi to reengag fulli in life as we knew it almost three year ago ? and how do we honor ourselv , our growth , our awaken over the past two year to sustain and make use of what we ’ ve learn ( both the posit and the neg lesson ) dure the pandem ? answer these question take me back to februari 2020 . i wa speak at a major confer in the deep south . i wa healthi . i wa thrive . i wa head out on a speak tour for black histori month . i fell horribl ill after the confer , as did mani of it attende . keep in mind , the world health organ did not even offici name thi viru until februari 11 . we had no test kit or anyth els then – except for report that china had some kind of viru outbreak and that our govern wa go to ban air travel from china to the unit state . so , as my symptom began to manifest – a high fever , seriou bodi pain and a terribl cough – i wa pretti sure i had contract the aw invis viru . the worst part of be sick wa that i wa alon in a hotel . it wa bad . i lay there wonder what would happen to me . would i end up on a respir or wors ? it ’ s a funni thing when you face your mortal . it ’ s the clearest mirror in which you will ever see yourself . and i did not necessarili like what i saw . i saw a life that wa still unfinish , a life that had so much more ahead . oh , sure , i have accomplish a great mani thing , but the most import question that kept run through my mind wa thi : have you fulli live your life , on your own term ? and the answer wa a resound no . i decid at that moment to chang my life . i get it . we all feel it . someth is clearli amiss right now , and it ’ s not just the trauma of the pandem ( though that ha certainli made thing clearer ) . we are all cling to our polit divis , our tribe , our anger , our grievanc . honestli , i have never seen my fellow human be in such obviou disarray . wors , there is an air of tacit accept among us , accept of the unaccept . we are fear . we know that at ani moment , we too can becom a statist . we can lose our own live or those we love to random act of violenc . we can not go to the groceri store , to our hous of worship , a movi theater , to a fourth of juli parad , without a palpabl fear that we or someon we love can becom the target of a gun-tot madman . if you were to ask me what the solut is to what ail us , i would tell you that it start with a good , hard look at ourselv . most peopl simpli do not like that answer . they would rather avoid , duck , deni and run from the mirror . in our modern world , it ha becom much easier to point the finger of blame at our parent , our past , our unheal trauma and all the thing that didn ’ t go our way . i wonder , howev , how is that work out for us as individu and collect as fellow travel on thi journey call life . i think we all know the answer – it is not work out well at all . mental health crise abound . peopl are not ok. and as a former colleg adjunct professor dure the height of covid-19 , i can attest that young peopl feel thi most acut . and yet it isn ’ t just confin to young peopl . accord to the who , rate of anxieti and depress increas global by 25 % in 2020 , a rise so dramat that at the end of 2021 , the us surgeon gener declar that there wa a “ devast ” nation mental health crisi . i think the way forward must start with us as individu . sometim self-reflect , self-lov and self-car , examin ourselv more deepli , is exactli what we need to be better human be . that is whi i wrote in my recent book , i want to challeng us as individu , and as citizen of the human race , to be better by do the work insid of us , that make us so much better on the outsid of us . here are three life lesson that help me and that i know will help you take better care of yourself as we head into the fall of 2022 : 1 . ask yourself three core but challeng question often : what do i want ? what do i need ? how am i feel ? and then answer them honestli and authent weekli , monthli , everi year that you are aliv . 2 . take care of your emot and mental health first : you are all you have . just as the flight attend instruct us to put our own oxygen mask on first , we need to do that with our emot need , our stress manag and mental well care . you can ’ t help anyon els if your cup is over full . take care of you first ; the rest will follow . 3 . build a strong and wise circl : do you have good peopl in your life circl ? peopl who encourag you , inspir you and offer wise counsel ? are you with peopl who exud posit , health and well-b ? or neg peopl , who dump their issu on you and do not engag in reciproc relationship with you ? if we want to fix what is broken in our collect human , then we must start with what is broken within us . there is no silver bullet , no magic elixir . but if we can find the grace to ask ourselv what it is that we want and that we need , then we may find a way forward . becaus it all start with you and with me . and how we treat other peopl reflect how we are feel about ourselv . we are tire of the surfac live that never dare to go deeper . we are drain from two-plu year of covid-19 , of career shift and zoom call . we crave someth more connect , more last . and we keep look for it outsid of ourselv , where we will never find it .