judul : kierkegaard : a brief introduct rili : april 16 , 2023 penuli : robbi ( nama pengguna/penuli di platform tersebut ) link : http : //www.thelivingphilosophy.com/p/kierkegaard-brief-intro thi is a brief taster of kierkegaard . after write the heidegg articl it struck me that the longer-form articl are a bit of a time commit for those uncertain about the valu of heidegg . and so i concoct the idea of boil down what is most compel about a thinker . that way those who are new to a philosoph can read a short piec and decid whether or not they want to know more . thi is the trial run of thi thought . on the threshold of modern the `` father of existenti '' søren kierkegaard wa born in 1813 in denmark 's capit copenhagen . denmark at the time wa stand at the threshold between the middl age and modern . from thi vantag point , kierkegaard could see modern from a perspect we can onli dream of today . he saw that the modern age wa n't just mass-produc product ; it wa mass-produc peopl . kierkegaard call thi mass-produc populac `` the crowd '' and from hi earliest write , he attack the media and the polit and cultur tendenc give birth to thi popul of live stereotyp . thi led kierkegaard on the philosoph quest for true individu . he rail against the domin philosophi of hi day — the philosophi of georg wilhelm hegel . hegel 's elabor philosoph system promis absolut knowledg through a scienc of logic . kierkegaard could n't have disagre more . as the great pre-socrat heraclitu onc wrote `` much learn doe not teach insight '' . and with that in mind kierkegaard call for a return to the live philosophi of the ancient greek . back then great wa n't mere about the book and knowledg you produc but the life you led . for kierkegaard thi becam a creed — philosophi must not exist in isol from our everyday live . the christian existentialist but there wa one crucial differ between kierkegaard and the ancient greek : he wa a christian . and for him thi wa an even more demand ideal becaus thi life wa now the decid between etern damnat and etern salvat . all these stream converg into one quest for kierkegaard : how to becom a true christian in christendom . and in hi eye thi had noth to do with attend church or obey dogma . the central theme of kierkegaard 's philosophi is faith . and for him thi mean far more than read the word of the gospel — it mean live them ; it mean action . as we see with abraham , faith is a person experi between the individu and god and thi experi transcend reason . it 's a work that is never complet — a choic you must constantli renew . for kierkegaard thi live repetit of faith is the make of the true individu . sinc thi faith transcend reason you wo n't find it in a book as hegel promis but you have to live it . kierkegaard wa acut awar of the danger of mass-produc a new breed of pseudo-individu . replac hegelian with kierkegaardian would do littl for the caus of individu . and so to get around thi he came up with a philosoph style he call `` indirect commun '' . hi philosoph model wa socrat — the irrit gadfli of ancient athen . socrat 's stream of iron question burrow past the stereotyp answer of the cultur . without these easi answer , he forc hi convers partner to think for themselv . kierkegaard design hi style to do the same . write under twenti differ name — each with their own person — some admir some scandal — kierkegaard forc hi reader to think for themselv and to find their own individu faith . that 's everyth for thi brief taster of kierkegaard . in the next instal we 're go to do a deeper dive on the dane . we 'll be look at hi three stage of life : the nihilist aesthet stage , the respons carry-a-heavy-burden ethic stage and the ultim religi stage . we 'll also give a more detail look at what kierkegaard mean by faith and hi place in the existentialist movement .