judul : rfk ’ s statement prove autist peopl and their famili everywher should fear trump and hi alli rili : 20 april 2025 penuli : john harri link : http : //www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2025/apr/20/autism-vaccines-robert-f- kennedy-jr-usa-donald-trump the idea that autism is some aberr that can be cure is typic of a movement that celebr simplist think and loath human differ . in the recent past , robert f kennedi jr ha said that donald trump is “ a terribl human be ” and “ probabl a sociopath ” . but in the us ’ s new age of irration and chao , these two men are now of one voic , pursu a strand of trumpist polit that sometim feel strang overlook . with trump onc again in the white hous and kennedi ensconc as hi health and human servic secretari , what they are jointli lead is becom clearer by the day : a war on scienc and knowledg that aim to replac them with the modern superstit of conspiraci theori . nearli 2,000 member of the us ’ s nation academi of scienc , engin , and medicin have warn of “ slash fund for scientif agenc , termin grant to scientist , defund their laboratori , and hamper intern scientif collabor ” . even work on cancer is now under threat . but if you want to realli understand the trump regim ’ s monstrous , consid where kennedi and a gang of acolyt are head on an issu that goe to the heart of million of live : autism . last wednesday , kennedi spoke at a press confer stage in respons to a report about appar rise rate of autism publish by the us ’ s center for diseas control and prevent . and out it all came : an insist that autism is an “ epidem ” and a “ prevent diseas ” , and – in complet defianc of the scienc – that the root caus lie with “ environment toxin ” . a rang of new studi , he said , will begin report back in septemb : with the same banal that defin hi boss ’ s promis on intern conflict and global econom , he told hi audienc that answer would be present to the public “ veri , veri quickli ” . most of the peopl present would have been awar of kennedi ’ s past support for the thoroughli discredit idea that autism is somehow link to the use of vaccin . as he spoke , they were presum remind of the occas when he ha talk about autist peopl with a mixtur of disgust and complet ignor . autism , he said , “ destroy ” famili ; today ’ s autist children “ will never pay tax . they ’ ll never hold a job . they ’ ll never play basebal . they ’ ll never write a poem . they ’ ll never go out on a date . mani of them will never use a toilet unassisted. ” those comment have rightli trigger a huge backlash . but what ha been rather lack is a broader critiqu of kennedi ’ s idea , and how they go deep into aspect of the us ’ s cultur and polit . as i explain in the book i have just written about my autist son , jame , i began my immers in autism and the argument that swirl around it 15 year ago , when he receiv hi diagnosi from the nh . that came amid visit from speech therapist and educ psychologist , and increasingli futil appoint with a paediatrician , who in effect told us to go away and manag as best we could . but straight away , i wa also awar of a much more exot subcultur root in the us , base around the idea that autism could somehow be cure , and an array of regimen and pseudo-treat . the anxieti surround andrew wakefield ’ s disgrac work on a link between autism and the measl , mump and rubella ( mmr ) jab were still easi to pick up . i read about “ chelat ” : inject chemic into the bloodstream , supposedli to remov the toxic preserv use in vaccin from the bodi and send autism on it way . it wa easi to find stuff about imposs restrict diet , and the terrifi notion of forc peopl to drink dilut bleach . these idea , moreov , came with claim of endless govern cover-up : proto-maga stuff , which had long been snowbal onlin . that said , the underli logic of all thi quackeri wa encourag by much more mainstream voic . by and larg , british campaign and research tend to focu on what autism actual is , and how to make autist live better – wherea in the us , veri power forc have seen autism as a diseas . in 2006 , presid georg w bush sign a legisl packag tellingli call the combat autism act , hail by one of it support as “ a feder declar of war on the epidem of autism ” . at that point , there were initi and organis with name such as cure autism now and defeat autism now ! all thi had alreadi spawn the autist self-advocaci movement that continu to loudli contest such idea , but it appeal obvious still linger . if i were in the us , i would now have two big worri . as well as constant attack on the public sector that have alreadi hack back help for autist peopl , there is a huge question about what kennedi ’ s nonsens might mean for other area of feder govern polici , and the kind of mmr-style panic hi “ answer ” on toxin might trigger . but some of those concern also appli to the uk , thank to the eas with which idea travel , and how trump and hi alli influenc polit across the world . kennedi ’ s pronounc are not onli about what caus autism ; they also reflect an age-old percept of autism as an aberr , and mani autist peopl as “ ineduc ” and beyond help . thi sure blur into populist ’ loath of modern idea about human differ : onc you have declar war on divers , an attack on the idea of neurodivers will not be far away . it also chime with one of the new right ’ s most pernici element : it constant insist that everyth is actual much simpler than it look . which bring me to someth it feel pain to have to write . autism denot a fantast complic set of human trait and qualiti , but that doe not make them ani less real . it present with and without learn disabl , and can be synonym with skill and talent . it caus ( if that is even the right word ) are larg genet , although care research is focus on how those herit aspect might sometim – sometimes– intersect with factor dure pregnanc , and with parent age . and obvious , those characteris bare scratch the surfac , which is some indic of the absurd of kennedi ’ s posit , and how danger it is . on thi side of the atlant , there are veri good reason whi mani of us who have famili with autist member feel deep anxieti about the constant shunt of polit to the right . the care , educ and offici understand of the peopl we love and sometim look after is fragil enough alreadi : what would happen if their fate wa in the hand of the trumpist know-noth of reform uk , or altern für deutschland ? the american tragedi unfold in front of our eye show the futur we now have to avoid , and the kind of peopl we may have to fight , who will not just be arrog and inhuman , but set on take us back to a fail past : terribl human be , you might call them .