judul : opinion : some job should never be done by kid . project 2025 see thing differ waktu terbit : wednesday , juli 31 , 2024 8:32 am edt penuli : veronica goodman sumber : http : //edition.cnn.com/2024/07/31/opinions/project-2025-child-labor-goodman/index.html isi berita : work a minimum wage job scoop ice cream or lifeguard at the local pool is a summer rite of passag for mani american kid . a grow number of mostli conserv offici and activist , howev , have a differ idea about what constitut age-appropri employ for minor . across the countri , some offici — overwhelmingli republican — are look for way to usher underag worker into potenti danger job like factori work , includ have them take late-night shift . the far-right playbook known as project 2025 goe so far as to propos that the depart of labor roll back regul restrict underag worker from take “ regul job ” in “ danger fields. ” on tuesday , paul dan , the director of project 2025 and a former top advis in trump ’ s administr step down amid intens critic includ from the former presid , amid intens scrutini from democrat and their alli who are harshli critic of the program . even though the presid ha publicli disavow it , democrat are convinc that element of the conserv blueprint are like to becom polici in a futur trump administr , given the number of former member of hi administr who play a role in draft it . the extrem polici agenda propos by the conserv heritag foundat argu that underag teenag offer an opportun to fill labor shortag in these hazard workplac . these effort come after year of lobbi by conserv industri group across the countri . the author of project 2025 say that in an incom republican administr , the depart of labor should “ amend it hazard-ord regul to permit teenag worker access to work in regul job with proper train and parent consent. ” in short , those revis would allow teen to work in hazard job . project 2025 ’ s workforc develop propos directli contradict year of legisl ensur that some job are simpli never perform by minor . america ’ s feder child labor law were pass nearli a centuri ago . prior to that time , it wa not unusu for children as young as preschool age to be sent out to help support their famili , mani of them lose limb on factori assembl line or contract respiratori ill in mine . the goal of the 1938 fair labor standard act ( flsa ) wa to put an end to the rampant injuri and death among child worker . it creat protect for minor includ common sens restrict on when , where and how they would be permit to work — includ limit on the number of hour minor could work , the type of job they could take and the machineri they could oper . research show that work adult job can caus seriou health issu for children and imped their educ . the effort to weaken child labor law is part of an alarm — and overwhelmingli conserv — lobbi effort . there is one notabl case of new jersey pass a law increas the number of hour minor could work , but other than that most of the recent exampl are the work of legislatur control by republican . and the new jersey exampl doe not go below the floor for minimum hour set by the fair labor standard act , but just reduc it to that feder standard . “ while we ’ ve come a long way in discourag child labor over the past centuri , recent year have seen some alarm reversals. ” -veronica goodman iowa is the most extrem exampl of a state increas the hour in which minor are allow to work — a measur which onli republican vote for and pass . fourteen-year-old in the hawkey state now perform assembl work in factori and meatpack facil as part of train program in direct violat of feder child labor law . meanwhil in arkansa , republican lawmak have remov age verif requir for hire children . republican lawmak in florida have propos allow 16 and 17-year-old to work longer hour on school night . as recent case around the countri have shown , work late while in high school can lead to lost sleep , miss school day and student fall behind on their schoolwork . so , while we ’ ve come a long way in discourag child labor over the past centuri , recent year have seen some alarm revers in those valu . a grow number of republican politician seem intent on drag the nation backward to an era when children perform danger and backbreak labor wa noth out of the ordinari . in fact , accord to the left-lean econom polici institut , sinc 2021 , 31 state have introduc legisl to weaken exist child labor law , and nearli half of those have success pass them . these law includ alarm provis that would extend the number of hour minor can work ; lift restrict on children do hazard work ; elimin parent permiss and work certif requir ; and even allow underag children to serv alcohol . and some employ are not even wait for the passag of law loosen restrict on employ minor . sinc 2019 , there ha been an 88 % increas in case in which children were found to be employ in violat of child labor law . last year alon , the depart of labor assess more than $ 8 million in penalti , an 83 % increas from the prior year . we ’ ve recent seen the danger of children illeg perform hazard work around the countri , in some instanc lead to their death at sawmil and slaughterhous , while other have lost their live while work with industri equip . these are the sort of outrag case — often lead to tragedi — that would like becom even more common if republican continu to weaken protect for work minor . so what ’ s caus thi race to the bottom by the right to eras decad of hard-fought labor protect for our most vulner american ? it seem to be link to our histor low unemploy rate and , consequ , our tighter labor suppli . some propos by legisl have even come in direct respons to lobbi by industri like restaur and hospit , as more employ report difficulti find worker in a boom economi . but to state the obviou , cave to special interest gear at get more kid work longer hour or in danger job is a terribl , even immor , approach to workforc develop . democrat have respond to thi alarm rise in demand for child worker , includ the increas in child labor violat by introduc counter measur that would modern our labor law to better protect young worker . propos bill like the feder child labor act would go a long way toward ensur compani that violat the law are appropri penal , that there is more transpar and account across suppli chain . in some state , lawsuit against employ can be file by the parent or guardian of children serious injur on the job . republican who are genuin interest in provid minor the opportun to work without put them in harm ’ s way should look at the way some state are invest in their workforc through educ and train . there are other option avail to policymak to help boost workforc particip in the short term without risk children ’ s health and safeti . exampl includ invest more in feder workforc develop program and expand access to educ and train servic across state workforc system . gov . josh shapiro of pennsylvania is make major invest in career pathway , pre-apprenticeship and regist apprenticeship . some other state are help student navig career option and pursu educ opportun , expos them to the skill necessari to enter and thrive in the workforc . these are safer and more construct way to prepar young peopl for job opportun . it should go without say that children don ’ t belong in danger factori or work overnight shift . they deserv to be safe and protect , includ when they becom old enough to legal work . instead of exploit the labor of minor to appeas busi interest , policymak should look at the way respons leader are make sound choic to develop and expand the pool of train worker . for decad , have children perform danger task in unsaf set ha been understood to be an egregi moral , societ failur . it ’ s appal that so mani republican politician want to take us back there .