judul : the iphon ’ s biggest rival may have one advantag in trump ’ s tariff war rili : 22 april 2025 penuli : lisa eadicicco , cnn there ’ s a key differ between an iphon and samsung galaxi phone that may matter now more than ever : one wa like assembl in china , while the other wa probabl produc in vietnam , india or south korea . samsung , unlik appl , doesn ’ t reli heavili on china for smartphon product , a detail that ’ s becom increasingli relev as the unit state and china have been engag in a tit-for-tat trade war that ’ s result in tariff on chines import of at least 145 % with some except . while appl ha shift some product to other region like india , april estim from wedbush secur indic 90 % of iphon product is still in china . smartphon and select other tech devic and part fall under trump ’ s except to reciproc tariff , which wa view as a repriev for appl and other phone maker . but the administr also promis that a differ bucket of tariff target specif at semiconductor – the compon that power electron – are come soon . samsung , the world ’ s largest smartphon maker by market share by some analyst estim , certainli isn ’ t immun from tariff or the econom impact they may bring . but it also doesn ’ t depend on a countri that ’ s been the biggest target of trump ’ s tariff offens to produc it smartphon , mean it may not have to upend it mobil devic oper in a major way , should tariff on smartphon from china send price skyrocket . “ the advantag is , ye , that they ’ re not face the whatev crazi number we are current deal with , ” said gerrit schneemann , a senior analyst for counterpoint research cover the smartphon industri . but that doesn ’ t mean that samsung will gain an immedi advantag , schneemann ad . “ at the same time , there ’ s not a direct line to turn that into just an exponenti boost in sale , ” he said . the tech industri reli on china ’ s vast network of compon supplier and assembl facil to mass produc consum devic like smartphon , laptop and monitor . some of those devic are exempt from reciproc tariff , but mani gadget aren ’ t , includ video game consol and earbud . trade tension between the two econom powerhous ratchet up again on monday when beij threaten reciproc measur against ani countri that restrict trade with china to appeas the unit state . earlier thi month , the trump administr issu a 90-day paus in reciproc tariff against most countri except china . analyst at wedbush secur , led by manag director dan ive , wrote in an april 20 note that negoti with china need to happen “ asap ” for the sake of “ the market , tech world , and us economy. ” “ otherwis thi tariff and trade war will inflict major damag to growth while increas inflation… and leav the tech world with mani question and no answer to plan their futur strategi , ” the note read . appl , given it depend on china , ha been a central focu of the tech industri ’ s tariff woe , with analyst from ub estim the price of an iphon 16 pro max assembl in china could skyrocket by $ 800 . that estim wa made prior to trump say that smartphon are exempt from reciproc tariff . just 5 % of iphon are made in vietnam and india , while anoth 5 % are produc in other countri , accord to wedbush . the situat is much differ for samsung , which close it last phone factori in china in 2019 after lose market share to domest rival in the countri , though it still ha other oper there . sourc within samsung told cnn that the vast major of it smartphon manufactur take place in south korea , vietnam , india and brazil . that line up with figur from analyst , as counterpoint research estim 90 % of samsung ’ s smartphon product is in vietnam . the intern data corpor , a market research firm , estim that roughli 50-60 % of samsung ’ s smartphon product is base in vietnam , while india is the compani ’ s second largest phone product hub , with south korea and latin america larg make up the rest . samsung open what it call “ the world ’ s largest mobil factori ” in india in 2018 and wa the largest export of smartphon from india in 2024 , accord to counterpoint research , though appl also ha a larg presenc , with both compani account for about 94 % of the countri ’ s smartphon export . samsung could also benefit from it dual role as both a seller of consum electron and a manufactur of compon like display , memori and chip , accord to ben barring , a global technolog analyst for invest manag firm quilter cheviot . “ samsung probabl ha a bit of an advantag in the sens that samsung is one of the few compani in the world that ’ s vertic integr , ” said barring . still , some analyst are skeptic that samsung ’ s diversifi manufactur will lead to a boost in sale . appl custom can be fierc loyal , and it ’ s unclear whether price hike would chang that . “ peopl just aren ’ t necessarili switch away from appl to samsung in gener , ” said schneemann . linda sui , senior director of global smartphon strategi for analysi firm techinsight , also believ appl will be abl to shift product of iphon destin for the us market to india . the compani had reportedli been ramp up iphon shipment from india to the unit state , accord to report from the financi time and the time of india . appl and samsung also cater to differ type of smartphon buyer . appl is known for sell just a few iphon model , virtual all of them premium devic with higher margin . samsung , on the other hand , gener sell a wider varieti of phone – particularli at the lower end of the price spectrum with it line of galaxi a seri phone , which schneemann say are samsung ’ s “ volum drivers. ” “ for samsung , it ’ s a mix bag , ” he said , as appl domin the higher end of the market . trump ’ s tariff are part of a broader effort to bring manufactur back to the unit state , mean other nation — includ vietnam and india — also face levi , albeit lower one of 10 % for now , which mean samsung is still like to be affect by tariff in some capac . but the larger concern is whether the state of the economi could impact consum spend , possibl dampen demand for smartphon as trump ’ s tariff could potenti rais price on everyth from toy to groceri . that could push consum to hold onto their devic for longer period of time , particularli in matur smartphon market like the unit state , where premium phone tend to be popular , said schneemann . demand in emerg market , where smartphon shipment have seen more growth , could also slow if consum “ feel the pinch , ” he said . “ daili necess and essenti are go to be higher on the list then mayb a new or upgrad smartphon , ” schneemann said .